Arrays are ordered lists.
Ex:
	let names = ["Michel", "Melissa", "Andrea"];
	let values = [true, {}, 2, "fine"];

- When to use arrays,
	1. when you need order.
	2. when you need fast access/insertion and removal(sort of...)

#### Big O of Arrays
- Insertion - It depends...
- Removal - It depends...
- Searching - **O(N)**
- Access - **O(1)**
	Since elements can be accessed by the index.

### Insertion
when we insert a new element at the end of the array, It takes constant times. The new element will assign a new index. It doesn't require much work. super simple.
Ex: 
let names = ["Michel", "Melissa", "Andrea"];
let names = ["Michel", "Melissa", "Andrea", "Raj"];
	**O(1)**

But if we try to add a new element at the beginning of the array, the order of the array gets messed up. Since the new element take up the place of index 0, all other elements has to assign new indexes and push 1 index away to the end. The entire array has to re-indexed. 
let names = ["Michel", "Melissa", "Andrea"];
let names = ["Raj", "Michel", "Melissa", "Andrea"];
	**O(n)**

#### Removing
Same story as the insertion. 
Removing from the end - **O(1)**
Removing from the beginning - **O(n)**

#### Big O of  Built-in array methods
- push - **O(1)**
- pop - **O(1)**
	push and pop operation happen at the end of the array. 
- shift - **O(N)**
- unshift - **O(N)**
	shift and unshift operations move the all elements. so every element has to reindexed.
- concat - **O(N)**
	Ex:
		var array1 = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
		var array2 = ['d', 'e', 'f'];
		console.log(array1.concat(array2));
		//output: Array ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e', 'f']
- slice - **O(N)**
	returns a slice of an array.
	Amount of time it takes grows in proportion with that size, how many elements we're trying to copy. 
- splice - **O(N)**
	remove and add new elements.
- sort - **O(N. log N)**
- forEach/map/filter/reduce/etc. - **O(N)**
	looping over elements. As the size of the array grows, so does the amount of time it takes.

