PostgreSQL is a Relational database management system as mySQL. 
PostgreSQL and mySQL share some common features, 
1. Organize data in tables
2. Support SQL
3. Supports JSON. 

But PostgreSQL and mySQL offer fundamentally different value propositions.
#### PostgreSQL
PostgreSQL is one of the most compliant, stable and mature relational databases available today and it's very *good with complex queries.* 
- PostgreSQL is **object relational** and it appeals to enterprise database administrator responsible for managing **online transactions processing(OLTP)**. 
- It provides protocols for business activities like e-commerce, customer relationship management and finance ledgers. 

> [!NOTE] object-relational database management system (ORDBMS)
> It blends concepts from two different database models:
> 	1. **Relational databases (RDBMS)** : Storing data in tables with rows and columns. Each table represents a specific entity, and rows represent individual records. Relationships between tables are established through foreign keys.
> 	2. **Object-oriented databases (OODBMS)** : Based on real-world objects. They focus on encapsulating data and functionality within objects.

> [!NOTE] PostgreSQL retains the core structure of a relational database but incorporates some object-oriented features. Here are some examples:
> - **User-defined types (UDTs):** You can define custom data types that behave like objects, encapsulating data attributes and methods.
> - **Inheritance:** Tables can inherit properties from other tables, promoting code reuse and representing hierarchical relationships.
> - **Procedural languages:** PostgreSQL allows embedding procedural languages like PL/pgSQL within the database, enabling complex logic and functions directly within the database.

- It's also ideal for managing the analytics of the data received, created and generated because PostgreSQL has number of performance and scalability features including extensive data analysis across multiple data types. 
- **MVCC(Multi Version Concurrency Control)** enables the simultaneous concurrency of right and reads operations. 
- **Continuity support** with postgreSQL is provided with high availability of services though asynchronous and synchronous replication methods across servers. 

If you need to process complex queries with multiple data types support and if you are looking for a database with great concurrency control, postgreSQL should be the option. 

#### mySQL
- Opensource relational database management system. 
- Being very easy to use and very fast making it a popular choice for web application in particular. 
- Typically used for smaller scale web applications that don't need the same level of performance and complexity as enterprise application. 
- Support for high speed partial index and full text indexes and has unique memory caches that  can result in superior database performances. 
- Support for scalability. (support for unlimited storage growth)
If you are looking for a fast, easy to use database for small to medium sized web applications, mySQL is the best option. 