#### 1. Character types
- **CHAR(n)** : Store a fixed-length character string of exactly n characters.
- **VARCHAR(n)** :  Store a variable-length character string with a maximum length of n characters
- **VARCHAR** : Store any length of characters.
- **TEXT** : Store any length of characters.(typically allows a much larger size limit)

#### 2. Numeric types
**SERIAL** : Unsigned integers that also auto increment. Always used for column ids.
- **SMALLSERIAL** : From 1 to 32,767
- **SERIAL** : From 1 to 2147483647
- **BIGSERIAL** : From 1 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807

**INTEGER** : Whole singed numbers only. Always use when you don't need a decimal.
- **SAMLLINT** : -32,768 to 32,767
- **INTEGER** : -2,147,583,648 to 2,147,583,647
- **BIGINT** : -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to  9,223,372,036,854,775,807

**FLOATS** : Numbers with decimals.
- **DECIMAL** : 131072 whole digits and 16383 after decimal
- **NUMERIC** : 131072 whole digits and 16383 after decimal
- **REAL** : 1E-37 to 1E37 (6 places of precision)
- **DOUBLE PRECISION** : 1E-307 to 1E308 (15 places of precision). Used when *DECIMAL* is not precise enough.
- **FLOAT** : Same as double.
#### 3. Boolean types
True. False or Null
- **TRUE** : Can be represented using *True, 1, t, y, yes, on*
- FALSE : Can be represented using *False, 0, f, n, no, off*
- NULL : null 

#### 4. Date/Time
- **Date** : Store dates using **YYYY-MM-DD** format. 
**TIME**
- **TIME WITHOUT TIME ZONE** : Stores in the time itself without any time zone information. Assumed to be in the server's time zone by default. Doesn't account for DST(Daylight Saving Time).
	Ideal for situation where you only care about the time difference between two point, independent of location and you want to store a generic time value without specific time zone association. 
Ex: Represent 1:30:30 PM, but the time zone is not specified.
	*time = 13:30:30*

- **TIME WITH TIME ZONE** : Stores the time itself with the offset from coordinated universal time(UTC). Takes DST into account. 
	Ideal format if you need to store time data specific to a particular time zone and want automatic adjustment for DST.
Ex: Represent 1:30:30 PM EST (EST means 5 hours behind the UTC)
	*time = '13:30:30-5.00'*
Ex: Represent 1:30 AM EST
	*time = '1:30-5.00'*
Ex: Represent 1:30 PM PST (PST means 8 hours behind the UTC)
	*time = '1:30-8.00'*
Ex: Represent 1:30 PM UTC
	*time = '1:30+00.00'*

**TIMSTAMP** : Store data information along with the time information.
Ex: DEC-21-1974 1:30 PM EST in a timestamp is like *1974-12-21 13:30-5.00*

**INTERVAL** : Represent a duration of time. 
Intervals can be used to add or subtract operations. 
Ex:
1. '1 Day' -> 01:00
2. '1 D 1 H 1 M 1 S' -> 01:01:01:01

#### 5. Other types
- **CURRENCY**
- **BINARY**
- **JSON**
- **RANGE**
- **GEOMETRIC**
- **ARRAYS**
- **XML**
- **UUID**
==On top of that we can make custom data types.==

#### Create custom data types
PostgreSQL offers two main methods to create custom data types,

1. **CREATE DOMAIN** : Creates a user-defined data type that leverages existing base type and optionally enforces constraints. 
Syntax,
```sql
CREATE DOMAIN domain_name AS base_type [CONSTRAINT constraint_name];
```
Ex: Creating a domain named `email_address` that enforces a valid email format for a column.
```sql
CREATE DOMAIN email_address AS VARCHAR(255)
CHECK (VALUE ~ '^([a-zA-Z0-9_\-\.]+)@([a-zA-Z\-]+\.)+[a-zA-Z]{2,}$');
```

2. **CREATE TYPE** : Creates a composite data type by grouping together several base data types under a single name. Ideal for handling complex data structures that involves multiple related attributes. 
Syntax,
```sql
CREATE TYPE type_name (
	field_name1 data_type,
	filed_name2 data_type,
	...
);
```
Ex: Create a composite data type named `book_details` to group relevant attributes.
```sql
CREATE TYPE book_details AS (
	title TEXT,
	author VARCHAR(100),
	isbn VARCHAR(13) CHECK (LENGTH(VALUE)=13)
);
```

Or you can mix up the syntax based on the situation. 
Ex:
```sql
CREATE TYPE sex_type AS ENUM('M','F');
```
To change our customer table's `sex` attribute from char to `sex_type` We can use ALTER command. 
```sql
ALTER TABLE customer
ALTER COLUMN sex TYPE sex_type USING sex::sex_type;
```