Cohesive devices are words or phrases that shows the logical relationship between paragraphs or sections of a text or speech. 
A.K.A,
	Linking words
	linkers
	connectors
	discourse markers
	transitional words

Ex: moreover, therefore, for instance

### Cohesion and Cohesive ties
Ex:
1. To go to the post office you will need to turn left from the next junction and then go straight for about 10 minutes and you will see it on your right-hand side. 
2. The cow grazes in the field. The car broke down. I go swimming. 

(1) makes sense while (2) consist of three independent sentences with no relationship to each other. This is because of the absence of cohesive devices. 

Types of cohesion, 
1. Reference
2. Substitute
3. Ellipsis
4. Conjunctions
5. Lexical items

#### 1. Reference
Refers to specific items within a text which cannot be "interpreted semantically in their own right" but "make reference to something else".

Ex: **Fanny** goes jogging everyday, **She** is a fast runner.

subject of the 1st statement: Fanny
subject of the 2nd statement: She
"She" refers to 'Fanny'.
The personal pronoun 'she' can not be interpreted semantically in its own right without referring to 'Fanny'.

#### 2. Substitution
This is a process in which one item within a text is replaced by another. 

Ex: Saman's **shoes** are old now. He should buy a new **pair.**

This cohesive relation where "pair" substitute the word "Shoes".

Unlike in reference, in substitution one item could easily be replaced by the other. ("pair" could be easily replaced by "shoes")

#### 3. Ellipsis
Ellipsis may be explained as the omission of an item. 

Ex: Ruvini **ate** cake and Ruwan [ blank ] some raisins.
	In the given example the predicator "ate" is left out in the second half of the sentence and is presupposed because it already occurred before. It would, also be possible to repeat the predicator again at the position where it has been left out. 

#### 4. Conjunctions
Purpose of using conjunctions,
1. to join nouns, phrases and clauses.
2. to operate within a sentence.
3. to join words/ideas of equal status.(coordinating conjunctions)
4. to join words/ideas of unequal status(subordinating)

**Connectives** are words that link clauses or sentences. They can be conjunctions or connecting adverbs. 


| Conjunctions                                                       | Connectives                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Tom **and** Jerry didn't get well **and** they hated each other.   | Mum and Dad went out. **Meanwhile**, Lindaa took the car and drove to the party.                                                                           |
|                                                                    |                                                                                                                                                            |
| 1st 'and' : joining nouns<br>2nd 'and' : joining two main clauses. | The idea in the first sentence of Mum and Dad going out is connected by "meanwhile" to the idea of Linda driving to the party during the same time period. |

| Conjunctions                                                                                             | Connectives                                                                                                                       |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Shrek **and** Fiona came home **when** I was asleep.                                                     | Mum and Dad came home. Linda, **however**, stayed out.                                                                            |
|                                                                                                          |                                                                                                                                   |
| 'and' : joining nouns<br>'when' : joining a subordinate idea/clause to the main clause, indicating time) | The idea in the first sentence is linked to the contrasting idea in the second sentence by the use of the contrasting connective. |

- Coordinating conjunctions(simple adverbs)
	for, and, nor, but, or, yet, so
- Compound adverbs in -ly
	eventually, accordingly, subsequently
- Compound adverbs in there and where
	therefore, thereby, whereas
- More compound adverbs
	furthermore, nevertheless, anyway, instead, besides
- Prepositional phrases
	on the contrary,
	as a result,
	in addition, 
	instead of,
	in spite of,
	because of

#### 5. Lexical Cohesion
Lexical cohesion is generally understood as "the cohesion effect achieved by the selection of vocabulary".
Two parts,
1. Repetition
2. Collocation

##### 5.1 Repetition
Uses the same word or synonyms, antonyms, etc.
Ex:
	Question: Who is the **kindest** among your friend ?
	Answer: Hiruni is the most generous.

Here two synonyms "kind(est)" and "(most) generous" are having lexical cohesion.

#### 5.2 Collocation
Collocation uses related words that often go together or tend to repeat the same meaning. 
Ex: "once upon a time" 
This is lexical cohesion.


### Use of Cohesive Devices
Cohesive devices indicate what we are doing in a sentence and assist to guide the reader through  our writing. 
They signal to the reader what the relationships are between the different clauses, sentences and paragraph.