## Period(Full stop)

**Rule 1 :** Use a period at the end of a complete sentence that is a statement.
Ex:
	I like to eat ice cream.

**Rule 2 :** If the last item in the sentence is an abbreviation that ends in a period, there is no need to follow it with another period. 
Ex:
	Eat the soup, buns, **etc.** We will enjoy the lunch.

**Rule 3 :** Question marks and exclamation points replace at the end of a sentence. 
Ex:
	I just can't believe this !
	What is your name ?

## Comma
Indicates a brief pause; they do not end sentences.

**Rule 1 :** Use commas to separate words and word groups in a simple series of three of more items. 
Ex: 
	I have to buy butter, eggs, flour, and sugar for the cake. 

- When the last comma in a series comes before and or (after flour in the above example), it is known as the **oxford comma.** Some people drop the oxford comma in a simple series. This can lead to misunderstandings.
Ex:
	I enjoy chocolate, fruit and nut and vanilla ice-cream. 
	(adding a comma after nut makes it clear that fruit and nut represents one flavor.)
	I enjoy chocolate, fruit and nut, and vanilla ice-cream.

**Rule 2 :** In sentences where two independent clauses are joined by connectors such as as, and, or, but, etc., put a comma at the end of the first clause. 
Ex:
	Incorrect: He painted the **walls** and he fixed the door.
	Correct: He painted the **walls,** and he fixed the door.

Some writers omit the comma if the clauses are both quite short.
Ex:
	I paint and he writes.

**Rule 3 :** Use a comma after certain words that introduce a sentence, such as "well", "yes", "why", "hello", "hey", etc...
Ex:
	Why, I can't believe this !
	No, you can't have my fish.

**Rule 4 :** Use commas immediately after expressions that interrupt the sentence flow (nevertheless, after all, by the way, on the other hand, however, etc...)
Ex:
	I am, by the way, very nervous about this.

**Rule 5 :** Use a comma to separate the day of the month from the year, and it is important to put one after the year.
Ex:
	It was in the The Island's June 5, 2003, edition.

No comma is necessary for just the month and year. 
Ex:
	It was in a June 2003 article. 

**Rule 6 A :** Use commas to introduce or interrupt direct quotations.
Ex:
	He said, "I don't care."
	"Why," I asked, "don't your care ?"
This rule is optional with one-word quotations.
Ex:
	He said "Stop."

**Rule 6 B :** If the quotation comes before "he said", "she wrote", "they reported", "Sunimal insisted", or a similar attribution, end the quoted material with a comma, even if it is only one word. 
Ex:
	"I don't care", he said.
	"I saw him running away," Fanny reported.
	"Stop," said Dan.

**Rule 6 C :** If a quotation functions as a subject or object in a sentence, it might not need a comma. 
Ex:
	Is "I don't care" all you can say to me ?
	Saying "Stop the car" was a mistake.

**Rule 7 :** Use a comma to separate a statement from a question.
Ex:
	I can eat now, can't I ?

**Rule 8 :** Use a comma to separate contrasting parts of a sentence. 
Ex:
	That is my house, not yours.

**Rule 9 A :** Use a comma before and after certain introductory words or terms, such as namely, that is, i.e., e.g., and for instance, when they are followed by a series of items.
Ex:
	You may be required to bring many items, e.g., sleeping bags, pans, and warm clothing.

**Rule 9 B :**
A comma should precede the term etc.
Ex:
	Sleeping bags, pans, warm clothing, etc., are in the tent.


## Quotation Marks
**Rule 1 :** Use double quotation marks to set off a direct (word-for-word) quotation.
Ex:
Correct: "I hope you will be here," he said.
Incorrect: He said that he "hoped I would be there."

(The quotation marks are incorrect because hoped I would be there doesn't state the speaker's exact words.)

**Rule 2 :** Quotation marks are used for components, such as chapter titles in a book, individual episodes of a TV series, songs from a music album, titles of articles or essays in print or online, and shorter works such as short stories and poems.
Ex:
	Rivini performed the song “Walakulu" in the school concert.
	(“Walakulu" the song takes quotation marks because it is part of a larger work— the school concert.)

**Rule 3 A :** Periods, commas always go inside quotation marks.
Ex: 
	The sign said, "Walk." Then it said, "Don't Walk," then, "Walk," all within thirty seconds. He yelled, "Hurry up."

**Rule 3 B :** Use single quotation marks for quotations within quotations.
Ex: 
	Dan said, "In a  town outside Brisbane, I saw 'Tourist go home' written on a wall. But then someone told me, 'Pay it no mind, lad.' "
	(Note that the period goes inside both the single and double quotation marks. Also note that, as a courtesy, there is visible space between adjacent single and double quotation marks.)

**Rule 3 C :** Always capitalize the first word in a complete quotation, even in midsentence.
Ex:
	Rivini said, "The song I sang at the school concert was praised by all."

**Rule 4 A :** Quotation marks are often used with technical terms, or other expressions that vary from standard usage.
Ex:
	In archaeology, shaping a piece of stone by striking it (to make a stone tool) is known as “knapping."
	I received a call from my “beloved” aunt who told me to leave this house.

**Rule 5 :** When quoted material runs more than one paragraph, start each new paragraph with opening quotation marks, but do not use closing quotation marks until the end of the passage.
Ex:
	She wrote: "I don't dance anymore. For a while I thought it was just a phase that I'd get over. 
	"Now, I don't even think about it."

## Question Mark
**Rule 1 :** Use a question mark only after a direct question.
Ex:
	Correct: Will you marry me ?
	Incorrect: I'm asking if you will marry me ?

**Rule 2 A :** A question mark replaces a period at the end of a sentence. 
Ex:
	Correct: Will you marry me?
	Incorrect: Will you marry me?.

**Rule 2 B :** Capitalize the word that follows a question mark. Some writers overlook this rule in special cases.
Ex:
	Will you play with me? with Saman? with anyone?

**Rule 3 A :** Don't use question marks with indirect questions, which are statements that contain questions. Use a period after an indirect question. 
Ex:
	Incorrect: I wonder if he would help me?
	Correct: I wonder if he would help me. 
	OR
	Correct: I wonder: Would he go help me?

**Rule 3 B :** Some sentences are statements or demands in the form of a question. They are called rhetorical questions because they don't require or expect an answer. Many should be written without question marks. 
Ex:
	Why don't you take a break.
	Would you kids get lost.
	What wouldn't I do for you!

**Rule 4 :** Use a question mark when a sentence is half statement and half questions.
Ex: 
	You do care, don't you ?

**Rule 5 A :** If a question is within the quoted material, a question mark should be placed inside the quotation marks. 
Ex:
	She asked, "Will you still help me?"
	Do you agree with the saying, "All's fair in love and war"?

**Rule 5 B :** If a quoted question ends in midsentence, the question mark replaces a comma.
Ex:
	"Will you still be my friend?" she asked. 


## Exclamation Mark
**Rule 1 :** Use an exclamation point to show emotion, emphasis, or surprise.
Ex: 
	I'm truly shocked by your behavior!
	Yay! We won!

**Rule 2 :** An exclamation point replaces a period at the end of a sentence. It also replaces a midsentence comma.
Ex:
	Incorrect: I'm truly shocked by your behavior!.
	Correct: I'm truly shocked by your behavior! 
	Incorrect: "I'm truly shocked by your behavior!," I told her.
	Correct: "I'm truly shocked by your behavior!" I told her.

**Ruel 3 :** Avoid using an exclamation point in formal business writing.

**Rule 4 :** Overuse of exclamation points is a sign of undisciplined writing. The writer F. Scott Fitzgerald once said, "An exclamation point is like laughing at your own joke." Do not use even one of these marks unless you're convinced it is justified.