Pandas provides several methods to read external data into a DataFrame.

1. Read from a CSV file
```python
pd.read_csv()
```
Parameters,
- `sep`: specify a delimiter.
- `header`: specify the row to use as column names.
- `names`: specify custom column names.
- `dtype`: specify data types for the columns.
- `parse_dates`: to parse dates.
Ex:
```python
df = pd.read_csv('data.csv', sep=',', header=0, dtype={'column1': int}, parse_dates=['date_column'])

```

2. Read from an excel 
```python
pd.read_excell()
```
Parameters,
- `sheet_name`: specify which sheet to read
	Default to first sheet
	If want to read a specific sheet, provide it's name to this parameter.
	If want to read all sheet at single go then pass `None` for this parameter.
- `usecols`: specify which columns to read
- `skiprows`: skip rows at the beginning of the file
- `nrows`: read a specific number of rows
Ex:
```python
df = pd.read_excel('data.xlsx', sheet_name='Sheet1', usecols='A:C', skiprows=1, nrows=100)
```

3. If you want to read and write DataFrames faster for internal purpose use **pickle file** formats as the reading time is much faster then excel or CSVs.
```python
df.to_pickle(path) 
#or
df = pd.read_pickle(path)
```
##### `to_pickle`
used to serialize and save a DataFrame to a pickle file.
```python
DataFrame.to_pickle(path, compression='infer', protocol=5, storage_options=None)
```
- `path`: The file path where the DataFrame will be saved.
- `compression`: (Optional) Specifies the compression mode. 
	Ex: `'infer', 'gzip', 'bz2', 'zip', 'xz', 'zstd'`
	Defaults to 'infer'
- `protocol`: (Optional) Specifies the pickle protocol version to be used.
	Default is 5.
- `storage_options`: (Optional) Extra options related to the storage backend.

##### `read_pickle`
used to deserialize and load a DataFrame from a pickle file.
```python
DataFrame.read_pickle(path, compression='infer', storage_options=None)
```
- `path`: The file path from which the DataFrame will be loaded.
- `compression`: (Optional) Specifies the compression mode. 
	Ex: `'infer', 'gzip', 'bz2', 'zip', 'xz', 'zstd'`
	Defaults to 'infer'
- `storage_options`: (Optional) Extra options related to the storage backend.

*****
Pandas support read from other data types as well,
Ex: 
`pd.read_stata(myfile.dta)`
`pd.read_sas(myfile.sas7bdat)`
`pd.read_hdf(myfile.h5,'df')`
`pd.read_sql()`
`pd.read_json()`
`pd.read_html()`
`pd.read_sql_table()`
`pd.read_gbq()` - Google BigQuery

