*updater function* is a function passed as an argument to `setState()` usually. (Ex: `setState(year+1)`)
It allow for safe updates base in the previous state used with **multiple state updates and asynchronous functions** good practice to use updater functions. 
This should be an arrow function. 

```js
function MyComponent(){
	const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
	function increment(){
		setCount(count+1);
	}
}
```
This function increases count by 1. 
```js
function MyComponent(){
	const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
	function increment(){
		setCount(count+1);
		setCount(count+1);
		setCount(count+1);
	}
}
```
Even though we repeatedly add more than `setCount(count+1);` line within that function, it only increment by 1. 
##### Reason,
We are using the current state of the `count` to calculate the next state. 
After using a setter functions, this doesn't trigger an state update because react batches together updates for performance reasons. 

At the beginning, `count=0`
When the `increment()` function triggers, react batches all the code line within that function to update. 
So it like executing `0+1` operation 3 times in a row. Because `count` variable didn't update before it executing the 2nd `count+1` line. `count` was still 0.

This is the issue with multiple state updates. 
##### Solution,
Using an arrow function inside the `useState()` solve the problem. 

In the updater function we must use a new variable to indicate the previous state.
Like `preCount` to indicate the previous state of the `count`.

According to the react documentation, it's common to name the pending state argument for the first letter of the state variable name or to start with `pre`.

Ex:
```js
function MyComponent(){
	const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
	function increment(){
		setCount(c => c + 1);
		setCount(c => c + 1);		
		setCount(c => c + 1);
	}
	//useState will identify this 'c' as state variable's pervious state.
}
```
In this updater functions, it takes the **pending state** to calculate the next state, not the current state. 
When react batches updates, it add all of those updater functions to a queue. During the next render, it will call them in the same order, rather than batch them all together. 

==When using multiple state updates, You want to be sure to use updater functions.== 
