React `useEffect` handles the side effects of the functional components.
 It is used to mimic the lifecycle methods of class-based components.
Use cases,
1. fetching data (and filter data while fetching)
2. timer (with a preset interval time)

Syntax,
```js
useEffect(<function>, <dependency>)
//2nd argument is optional
```
- `function` : contains the code to be executed when useEffect triggers.
- `dependency` : (optional) useEffect triggers when the given dependency is changed.

### How it works ?
You call `useEffect` with a callback function that contains the side effect logic. By default, this function runs after every render of the component.

 You can optionally provide a dependency array as the second argument. The effect will only run again if any of the values in the dependency array change.

### Control the side effect in useEffect
1. To run useEffect on every render.
```js
useEffect(() =>{
	// code here runs on every render
})
```
- Every time the component renders(or any subcomponents renders) the useEffect runs. 

2.  To run useEffect only once on the first render.
```js
useEffect(() =>{
	// code here runs only once, on the first render only
}, [])
```

3. To run useEffect on change of a particular value.
```js
useEffect(() =>{
	//runs on the first render
	//and any time any dependency value changes 
}, [props, state])
```

****
Ex:
```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client";

function Timer() {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  useEffect(() => {
    setTimeout(() => {
      setCount((count) => count + 1);
    }, 1000);
  }, []); // <- add empty brackets here

  return <h1>I've rendered {count} times!</h1>;
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Timer />);
```

- The `Timer` component initializes the state `count` to 0 using the `useState` hook.
- The `useEffect` hook is used to set up a timer that increments the `count` state every second. The empty dependency array `[]` ensures this effect runs only once after the initial render.
- The `setTimeout` function inside the `useEffect` callback updates the `count` state by 1 after 1000 milliseconds (1 second).
	The `setTimeout` function in JavaScript is used to execute a function or evaluate an expression after a specified number of milliseconds. It's part of the Web API provided by browsers, allowing developers to schedule code execution for a later time.
	Syntax,
	`setTimeout(function, delay, [arg1, arg2, ...])`
****
Ex:
```js
import { useState, useEffect } from` "react"`;
function HookCounterOne() {
	const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
	useEffect(() => {
		document.title = You clicked ${count} times;
	}, [count]);
	
	return (
		<div>
			<button onClick={() => setCount((prevCount) => prevCount + 1)}>
			Click {count} times{""}
			</button>
		</div>
	);
}
export default HookCounterOne;
```
