React-router is a standard library enables you to manage navigation within react Single-Page Application(SPAs).
> [!NOTE] Single-Page Applications(SPAs)
> SPAs load a single HTML page and update the content dynamically based on user interaction, avoiding full page reloads.

#### Key features,
1. **Declarative Routing**: React Router allows you to declare routes in your application using a syntax similar to HTML. You specify the routes and the components they should render.
2. **Dynamic Routing**: Routes in React Router are dynamic, meaning you can pass data through the URL and access it in your components.
3. **Nested Routes**: You can nest routes inside one another, which allows for complex UIs with nested components.
4. **Route Parameters**: React Router supports route parameters, which enable you to create dynamic and reusable routes that can handle different inputs.
5. **Programmatic Navigation**: You can navigate programmatically using methods provided by React Router, such as `useHistory` or `navigate`.
6. **Switch Component**: The `Switch` component renders the first child `Route` that matches the location.
7. **Browser and Hash History**: React Router supports different types of URL schemes, such as the browser's history (HTML5 history API) and hash history (using URL hash fragments).
****
Ex:
Assume that within the `src` folder, we have folder named `pages` with several files including,
`src/pages/`
	Layout.js
	Home.js
	Blog.js
	Contact.js
	NoPage.js
Each file contain a react component.
Now use router in the `index.js` file.
```jsx
import ReactDOM from "react-dom/client"
import {BrowserRouter, Routes, Route} from "react-router-dom"
import Layout from "/pages/Layout"
import Home from "/pages/Home"
import Blog from "/pages/Blog"
import Contact from "/pages/Contact"
import NoPage from "/pages/NoPage"

export default function App()
{
	return(
		<BrowserRouter>
			<Routes>
				<Route path="/" element={<Layout />}>
					<Route index element={<Home />}>
					<Route path="blogs" element={<Blogs />}>
					<Route path="contact" element={<Contact />}>
					<Route path="*" element={<NoPage />}>
				</Route>
			</Routes>
		</BrowserRouter>
	)
}
```
- First wrap the content with `<BrowserRouter>`
- Then define routes in the `<Routes>` component. 
	An application can have multiple `<Routes>`.
- Now use `<Route>` to defines routes. They can be nested.
	The first `<Route>` has the path of `/` and renders the `Layout` component.
- The nested `<Route>`s inherit and add to the parent route.
	the `blog` path is combined with the parent and become `/blog`
- The `Home` component route does not have a path but has an `index` attribute.
	This specifies this route as the default route for the parent route, which is `/`.
- Setting the `path` to `*` will act as a catch-all for any undefined URLs. 
	This is great for a 404 error page.

*Layout.js*
	The "layout route" is a shared component that inserts common content on all pages, such as a navigation menu.
```jsx
import { Outlet, Link } from "react-router-dom"

const Layout = () => {
	return (
		<>
			<nav>
				<ul>
					<li>
						<Link to="/">Home</Link>
					</li>
					<li>
						<Link to="Blog">Blog</Link>
					</li>
					<li>
						<Link to="Content">Content</Link>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</nav>
			
			<Outlet />
			
		</>
	)
};
export defualt Layout;
```
- The `Layout` component has `<Outlet>` and `<Link>` elements.
- The `<Outlet>` renders the current route selected. 
- `<Link>` is used to set the URL and keep track of browsing history. 
	anytime we link to an internal path, we will use `<Link>` instead of `<a href="">`.

*Home.js*
```jsx
const Home = () => {
	return <h1>Home</h1>
};
export default Home;
```
*Blogs.js*
```jsx
const Blogs = () => {
  return <h1>Blog Articles</h1>;
};
export default Blogs;
```
*Concat.js*
```jsx
const Contact = () => {
  return <h1>Contact Me</h1>;
};
export default Contact;
```
*NoPage.js*
```jsx
const NoPage = () => {
  return <h1>404</h1>;
};
export default NoPage;
```
****
#### Essential concepts
1. `<BrowserRouter>` : Used for web applications, leveraging the History API for smooth navigation.
2. `<Route>` Component : Declares a mapping between a URL path(Ex: "/about") and the React component to render for that path. 
3. `<Link>` component : Similar to anchor(`<a>`) tag in HTML.
4. Nested `<Route>` components : Allows to create hierarchical URL structures and component relationships. Useful for complex applications with nested layouts (e.g., a blog post with comments).