Redux is a state container that commonly used with ReactJS.

 Core Concepts,
 1. The state of your whole application is stored in an **object tree** within a *single store*. 
	 (Object tree is a simple hierarchical list of objects of a project)
2. State is read only. The only way to change the state is to dispatch an action. 
3. Changes can be made with reducer functions.
	A reducer is a function that takes the previous state and an action to return the next state.

To install
```bash
npm install redux react-redux
```

Step 1 : **To create a Redux store**
Use `createStore` method from Redux.
```jsx
// src/store.js
import { createStore } from 'redux'
import rootReducer from './reducer'

const store = createStore(rootReducer);

export default store;
```

Step 2 : **To create a Reducer**
A reducer specifies how the state changes in response to actions. 
```jsx
// scr/reducer/index.js
const initialState = {
	counter: 0
}

function counterReducer(state = initialState, action) {
	switch (action.type) {
		case 'INCREMENT'
			return {
				...state,
				counter: state.counter + 1
			};
		case 'DECREMENT'
			return {
				...state,
				counter: state.counter - 1
			};
		default:
			return state;
	}
}
```

Step 3 : **Provide the store to your Application**
Use the `Provider` component from React-Redux to make the redux store available to your entire application. 
```jsx
// src/index.js
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { Provider } from 'react-redux'
import store from './store'
import App from './App'

ReactDOM.render(
	<Provider store={store}>
		<App />
	</Provider>
);
```

Step 5 : **Connect React Components to Redux**
Use the `connect`function from React-Redux to connect your react components to the Redux store.
```jsx
// src/components/Conter.js
import React from 'react'
import { connect } from 'react-redux'

const Counter = ({counter, increment, decrement}) => {
	<div>
		<h1>{counter}</h1>
		<button onClick={increment}>Increment</button>
		<button onClick={deccrement}>Deccrement</button>
	</div>
};

const mapStateToProps = (state) => ({
	counter: state.counter
})

const mapDispatchToProps = (dispatch) => ({
	increment: () => dispatch({ type: 'INCREMENT'})
	decrement: () => dispatch({ type: 'DECREMENT'})
})

export default connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(Counter);
```
- `mapStateToProps` : This function is used to map the state from the Redux store to the props of the react component. 
	It takes the entire `state` of the Redux store and returns an object containing the pieces of state(`state.counter`) your component need. 
	`counter: state.counter`
	(Left counter: component prop)
	(Right counter: The object from the redux store which includes the counter state)
- `mapDispatchToProps` : This function is used to create functions that dispatch actions to the Redux store. It takes the `dispatch` function as an argument and returns and object containing two functions that your component can call to dispatch actions. 
	These functions dispatch actions of type `INCREMENT` and `DECREMENT` respectively when called.
- `connect` : The connect function from react-redux used to connect the `Counter` component to the redux store. It takes `mapStateToProps` and `mapDispatchToProps` as arguments and returns a higher-order component (HOC) that wraps the `Counter` component.
> [!NOTE] Higher-Order-Components(HOC)
> A higher-order component (HOC) is **an advanced technique in React for reusing component logic**. HOCs are not part of the React API, per se. They are a pattern that emerges from React's compositional nature. Concretely, a higher-order component is a function that takes a component and returns a new component.

> [!NOTE] Naming Conventions in Redux
> `mapStateToProps` and `mapDispatchToProps` function names are conventional but not required. We can name them anything. Using these names makes your code more readable and consistent with common Redux patterns.

****
- Redux allow you to have global state. Which means you can have a state that is accessible from any component no matter where they are in the tree. 
- Main 3 concepts of Redux,
1. store
2. actions
3. reducer

#### 1. Store
 This is the global state mentioned above.
 The store is made of multiple "Slices". Each slices of the state is responsible for a certain domain in the application.  
	Ex: In a counter application, we would have a counter slice. This counter slice would hold the pieces of sate that are specifically related to the counter. 
#### 2. Actions
Actions are essentially what you use to tell redux what is should do to your states. 
Ex:
	An action to increment the count.
	An action to decrement the count. 
In Redux, actions are plain JavaScript objects that represent an intention to change the state. Redux actions must have an `action` property and there are some additional properties.  
1. `type`
	A string that indicates the type(calling name) of the action being performed. 
```js
{ type: "ADD_TODO"};
```
2. `payload`
	Contain additional information about the action. 
	Can be any type of data that is needed to perform the action. 
```js
{
	type: "ADD_TODO",
	payload: {
		text: "Buy_milk"
	}
}
```
These two are the main properties, additionally we have,
3. `error`
	used to indicate if the action represents an error.
	 If `true`, the action represents an error.
```js
{
	type: 'FETCH_USER_FAILURE',
	error: true,
	payload: new Error('User not found')
}
```
4. `meta`
	Contain any extra information that is not part of the payload but might be needed to process the action.
```js
{
	type: 'FETCH_USER_REQUEST',
	meta: {
		timestamp: Date.now()
	}
}
```

#### 3. Reducer
Reducer are responsible for taking an action, and then depending on the type of the action, it will go out and make the update in redux store. 
They will use the `type` of the action to know what updates to do, then optionally will use `payload` to do the specific action.

**Reducer will never directly make an update to the redux store.**
> [!NOTE] Why ?
> State is immutable. We are not allowed to directly mutate the state.
>  The only way to change the state is to dispatch an action.
>   1. Reducers will take an copy of the state and make changes to that copy of the state. 
>   2. Now it has all the unchanged properties of the state with new updates.
>  3. Then reducer will completely replace the state as a whole with the copy that has the changes applied.  

