Composition and inheritance are two approaches for building and organizing components. React embrace composition over inheritance because composition provides more flexibility and reusability. 
### Composition
Composition is the process of combining multiple components to create more complex components. It involves passing components and data as props or children to other components. 
Benefits,
1. Reusability
2. Flexibility
3. Separation of concern
	Each component can focus on a specific aspect of the UI or behavior, making the code more modular and easier to maintain. 
Ex:
```jsx
const FancyBorder = ({ children, color }) => (
  <div className={`FancyBorder FancyBorder-${color}`}>
    {children}
  </div>
);

const Dialog = ({ title, message }) => (
  <FancyBorder color="blue">
    <h1 className="Dialog-title">{title}</h1>
    <p className="Dialog-message">{message}</p>
  </FancyBorder>
);

const WelcomeDialog = () => (
  <Dialog title="Welcome" message="Thank you for visiting our spacecraft!" />
);
```
- `FancyBorder` and `Dialog` are composed to create a `WelcomeDialog` component.

### Inheritance
Inheritance is a mechanism where a class derives from another class, inheriting its properties and methods. In React, inheritance is rarely used because it doesn’t align well with the functional programming paradigm that React promotes.

Drawbacks,
1. Tight coupling : Inherited components are tightly coupled, making it harder to change one component without affecting others. 
2. Less Reusability : Inheritance hierarchies can become deep and complex, reducing the reusability of individual components. 
3. Complexity : Managing state and behavior across inherited components can be complex and error-prone.  
```jsx
class Button extends React.Component {
	render() {
	return <button>{this.props.label}</button>;
	}
}

class PrimaryButton extends Button {
	render() {
	    return <button className="primary">{this.props.label}</button>;
	}
}
```
- `PrimaryButton` inherits from `Button`, which can lead to a rigid and less flexible structure.