Components have a lifecycle that consist of several phases, which can be managed through lifecycle methods. 

#### Phases of the Component Lifecycle
1. **Mounting** : When an instance of a component is being created and inserted into the DOM.
2. **Updating** : When a component is is being re-rendered as a result of changes to either its props or states. 
3. **Unmounting** : when a component is being removed from the DOM.
4. **Error Handling** : When there is an error during rendering, in a lifecycle method or in the constructor of any child component. 

### 1. Mounting
Provides 4 methods,
1. **constructor(props)**
	Called before the component is mounted. Used to initialize state and bind method. 
```jsx
constructor(props) {
	super(props);
	this.state = { counter: 0 };
}
```

2. **static getDerivedStateFromProps(nextProps, prevState)**
	Called right before rendering, both on the initial mount and subsequent updates. 
	It should return an object to update the state or `null` to update nothing. 
```jsx
static getDerivedStateFromProps(nectProps, prevState0) {
	if(nextProps.value !== prevState.value) {
		return { value: nextProps.value};
	}
	return null;
}
```

3. **componentDidMount()**
	Called immediately after a component is mounted. 
	Ideal for initializing things like network requests, subscriptions or DOM manipulations. 
```jsx
componentDidMount() {
	fetch('/api/data')
		.then(response => resposne.json())
		.then(data => this.setState({ data }));
}
```

4. **render()**
	The only required method in a class component.
	Examines `this.props` and `this.state` and returns React elements.
	This method is responsible for what your component will display on the screen and is return JSX. This JSX defines the structure of your component's UI elements.
```jsx
render() {
  return <div>{this.state.value}</div>;
}
```
### 2. Updating
Provide 5 methods, 
1. **static getDerivedStateFromProps** : (Mentioned in the Mounting phase)
	Get called right before rendering when new props or states are being received. 

2. **shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState)**
	Called before rendering when new props or state are received. It defaults to `true` but can return `false` to skip rendering.
```jsx
shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
	return nextProps.value !== this.props.value;
}
```

3. **render()** : (Mentioned in the Mounting phase.)

4. **getSnapsBeforeUpdate(prevProps, prevState)**
	called right before the DOM is updated. Its return value will be passed as the third parameter to `componentDidUpdate()`
```jsx
getSnapshotBeforeUpdate(prevProps, prevState) {
	if(prevProps.scrollPosition !== this.props.scrollPosition) {
		retunr this.scrollContainer.scrollHeight;
	}
	return null;
}
```

5. **componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState, snapshot)**
	Called immediately after updating. 
	Good for performing DOM operations or network requests that depend on the result of the update. 
```jsx
componentDidUpdate(prevProp, prevState, snapshot) {
	if(snapeshot !== null) {
		this.scrollContainer.scrollTop = snapshot;
	}
}
```

### 3. Unmounting
provide one method, 
1. **componentWillUnmount()**
	Called right before a component is unmounted and destroyed. 
	Ideal for cleanup tasks like cancelling network requests, removing event listener or cancelling subscriptions. 
```jsx
componentWillUnmount() {
	clearInterval(this.timerID)
}
```

### 4. Error Handling
Provide two methods,
1. **static getDerivedStateFromError(error)**
	Called when an error is thrown in a descendant component. 
	Use this method to update state to display an error UI.
```jsx
static getDerivedStateFromError(error) {
	return { hasError: true };
}
```

2. **componentDidCatch(error, info)**
	Called after an error has been thrown by a descendant component. Use this method to log error information.
```jsx
componentDidCatch(error, info) {
  logErrorToService(error, info);
}
```