Custom hooks in React are a way to encapsulate and reuse stateful logic between components. 
They allows you to extract component logic into reusable functions, which can be shared among multiple components. 

#### When yo use a custom hook,
- To reuse stateful logic across multiple components.
- To separate concerns and keep components focused on their primary responsibility
- To abstract away complex logic from components. 

#### Naming Convention
Hooks start with **"use"** as a prefix. 
Ex: useState

- we can use built-in hooks to define the custom hooks.
- Hook should return a value or a function. 

### STEPS
1. Create the file using a meaningful name which follows the naming convention. 
- Create the file in your project's `src` or `src/hooks` directory.
> [!NOTE] Best practice of hook's directory
>It's better to place your,
>	1. Reusable hooks in a top level directory to make them easy to reach from anywhere in the codebase. (Ex: `src/hook`)
>	2. Dedicated hooks in a `hooks` folder near your component. 

2. Define your code.
- Import all necessary hooks to the file.
- Declare the code in a `export default function <name>` block.
Ex: File name : *useFetchData.jsx*
```tsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

export defualt function useFetchData(url) {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	const [error, setError] = useState(null);
	
	useEffect( () => {
		const fetchData = async () => {
			setLoading(true);
			try {
				const response = await fetch(url);
				const data = await response.json();
				setData(data);
			} catch(error) {
				setError(error);
			} finally {
				setLoading(false);
			}
		};
		fetchData();
	}, [url]);
	return { data, loading, error};
}
```
- `return { data, loading, error}` to return data or function to the component using this hook. (optional)

3. Use the custom Hook
- Import it first.
- Call the hook like a regular function.
Ex: 
```jsx
import useFetchData from './src/hooks/useFetchData'

function App() {
	const url = 'http://api.example.com/data';
	const { data, loading, error } = useFetchData(url);
	
	return (
		<div>
			{ loading && <p>Loading...</p>}
			{error && <p>Error: {error.meeage}</p>}
			{data && <MyComponent data={data} />}
		</div>
	);
}
```


> [!NOTE] Note
> When creating custom Hooks, 
> 	Remember to handle potential side effects (Ex: cleanup logic in `useEffect`) to prevent memory leaks or unexpected behavior.
