- Most commonly seen issue.
- Result of,
	Insecure default configurations
	Incomplete ad hoc configurations
	Open cloud storage
	Misconfigured HTTP headers
	Verbose error messages containing sensitive information
- Attackers will often attempt to exploit unpatched flaws or access default accounts, unused pages, unprotected files and directories, etc to gain unauthorized access or knowledge of the system
- Automated scanners are useful for detecting misconfigurations, use of default accounts or configurations, unnecessary services, legacy options, etc.

- Vulnerabilities,
	1. Missing appropriate security hardening
	2. Improperly configured permissions on cloud services. 
	3. Enabled unnecessary features.
	4. Default account and password still keep unchanged.
	5. Error handling reveals stack traces or other overly informative error messages to users.
	6. Disabled latest security features in updated systems.
	7. Insecure security setting of the frameworks such as Spring, ASP.NET
	8. The server does not send security headers.
	9. Outdated software.

- Prevention,
	1. Remove or do not use unused/unnecessary features and frameworks.
	2. Development, QA, and production environments should all be configured identically, with different credentials used in each environment.
	3. A segmented application architecture that provides effective, secure separation between components or tenants, with segmentation, containerization, or cloud security groups (ACLs).
	4. Sending security directives to clients, e.g. Security Headers
	5. An automated process to verify the effectiveness of the configurations and settings in all environments

- Ex:
1. The application server comes with sample applications that are not removed from the production server. 
	These sample applications have known security flaws attackers use to compromise the server.
2. Directory listing is not disabled on the server.
	An attacker discovers they can simply list directories. The attacker finds and downloads the compiled Java classes, which they decompile and reverse engineer to view the code. The attacker then finds a serious access control flaw in the application
3. The application server’s configuration allows detailed error messages, e.g. stack traces, to be returned to users.
	This potentially exposes sensitive information or underlying flaws such as component versions that are known to be vulnerable
4. A cloud service provider has default sharing permissions open to the Internet by other CSP users. This allows sensitive data stored within cloud storage to be accessed
