- Attackers steal weakly protected data due to weak encryptions or hashing.
- Attackers typically don’t break the crypto. They break something else, such as find keys, get cleartext copies of data, or access data via channels that automatically decrypt.

- Common flaws,
	1. Not encrypting sensitive data
	2. Unsafe key generation and storage
	3. Not rotating keys
	4. Weak algorithm usage
	5. Weak or unsalted hashes
	6. Unauthorized user access to decrypted copies of the data.

- Prevention,
	1. Encrypt all sensitive data.
	2. Ensure offsite backups are encrypted and keys are managed and backed up separately.
	3. Use of strong standard algorithms and strong keys.
	4. Use hashed passwords with salting involved.
	5. Ensure prevent unauthorized access to keys and passwords. 

Ex:
1. An application encrypts credit cards in a database to prevent exposure to end users. However, the database is set to automatically decrypt queries against the credit card columns, allowing a SQL injection flaw to retrieve all the credit cards in cleartext. The system should have been configured to allow only back end applications to decrypt them, not the front end web application.
2. A backup tape is made of encrypted health records, but the encryption key is on the same backup. The tape never arrives at the backup center.
3. The password database uses unsalted hashes to store everyone’s passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password file. All the unsalted hashes can be brute forced in 4 weeks, while properly salted hashes would have taken over 3000 years.