- Many web applications check URL access rights before rendering protected links and buttons. However, applications need to perform similar access control checks each time these pages are accessed, or attackers will be able to forge URLs to access these hidden pages anyway
- Applications are not always protecting page requests properly. Sometimes, URL protection is managed via configuration, and the system is misconfigured.

- Prevention, 
	1. Use role based authentication and authorization. 
	2. The policies should be highly configurable. 
	3. The enforcement mechanism(s) should deny all access by default, requiring explicit grants to specific users and roles for access to every page.
	4. If the page is involved in a workflow, check to make sure the conditions are in the proper state to allow access.

Ex: 
1. The attacker simply force browses to target URLs. Consider the following URLs which are both supposed to require authentication. Admin rights are also required for access to the “admin_getappInfo” page. 
	 http://example.com/app/getappInfo 
	 http://example.com/app/admin_getappInfo 
	If the attacker is not authenticated, and access to either page is granted, then unauthorized access was allowed. If an authenticated, non-admin, user is allowed to access the “admin_getappInfo” page, this is a flaw, and may lead the attacker to more improperly protected admin pages

- Such flaws are frequently introduced when links and buttons are simply not displayed to unauthorized users, but the application fails to protect the pages they target.