### What is an Algorithm
An algorithm is a process or set of steps to accomplish a certain task.
Almost everything in programming involves some kind of algorithms.

### Problem solving steps
1. Understand the problem
2. Explore concrete examples
3. Break it down
4. Solve/simplify the problem
5. Look back and refactor
### 1. Understand the problem
Ask these questions from yourself,
	1. Can I restate the problem in my own words ?
	2. What are inputs that go into the problem ?
	3. What are the outputs that should come from the solution to the problem ?
	4. Can the outputs be determined from the inputs ?
		(Do I have enough information to solve the problem ?)
		You may not be able to answer this question until you set about solving the problem. But it still worthy to consider it since the early stages. 
	5. How should I label the important pieces of data that are a part of the problem ?

Ex: Write a function which take two numbers and return their sum.
1. Need a function to do addition on two numbers.
2. two numbers
	but are those integers or other types ?
	how large these numbers are going to be ?
	are we only working with two inputs ?
	what happen if someone input more than 2 numbers ?
3. sum of the two numbers
	but should it be an integer or other type ?
4. yes
	but what if some passes one or more than 2 numbers ?
	should we overload the method or should we return undefined or something ?
5. function name "add", inputs: num1, num2, output: sum

### 2. Explore concrete examples
Examples can help you understand the problem better. 
This applies on larger scale things like 'User Stories' and 'Unit tests'.
- Start with simple examples.
- Progress to more complex examples.
- Explore examples with empty inputs. 
- Explore examples with invalid inputs.
	(what happens if a user enters invalid inputs.)

Ex: Write a function which takes in a string returns counts of each character in the string. 

Simple examples
```
charCount("aaaa") // {a:4}
charCount("hello") // {h:1, e:1, l:2, o:1}
```
Progress to more complex examples
```
if the string is like "my phone number is 48434389"
what would we expect to return ?
Do we want count spaces ?
Should we count other special characters if they are in the input string ?

if the string is like "Hello hi"
should we count 'H' and 'h' together or separate ?
```
Examples with empty inputs
```
carCount("")
in this situation should we return
	1. empty string ?
	2. null ?
	3. a number ?
	4. false ?
	5. or an error ?
```
Examples with invalid inputs(edge cases)
```
What is someone passes in something isn;t a string ?
```

### 3. Break it down
Take the actual steps of the problem and write them down.
It doesn't have to be a full pseudocode or syntax.
Just write down the steps. It doesn't have to include tons of details. Every line you need to write just the basic component of the solution. 

This forces you to think about the code you will write before you write it and helps you catch any lingering conceptual issues or misunderstandings before you dive in and have to worry about details like language syntax.

Ex: Write a function which takes in a string returns counts of each character in the string. 
```js
function charCount(str){
	//do something
	//return an object with that are lower case alpahnumeric characters in the string, values should be counts for those characters. 
}
```

```js
function charCount(str){
	//make object to return at the end
	//loop over string, for each character...
		//if char is a number/letter and is a key in object, add one to count
		//if the char is a number/letter and isn't a key in the object, add it and set value to 1
		//if charcter is something else(space, period, etc) don't do anything
	//return object at end  
}
```

### 4. Solve the problem
Solve the problem if you can. If you can't solve a simpler problem.
(Try to ignore the part is giving you a really hard time in order to focus on everything else.)

#### Simplify
- Find a core difficulty in what you are trying to do. 
- Temporarily ignore that difficulty.
- Write a simplified solution.
- Then incorporate that difficulty back in. 

Ex: Write a function which takes in a string returns counts of each character in the string. 
```js
function charCount(str){
	//make object to return at the end
	var result = {};
	//loop over string, for each character...
	for(var i = 0; i < str.length; i++){
		var char = str[i].toLowerCase();
		//if char is a number/letter and is a key in object, add one to count
		if(result[char] > 0){
			result[char]++;
		} 
		//if the char is a number/letter and isn't a key in the object, add it and set value to 1
		else{
			result[char] = 1;
		}
		//if charcter is something else(space, period, etc) don't do anything
	//return object at end  
	return result;
}
```
This isn't the complete solution. just wrote what we know. 

### 5. Look back & Refactor

**Refactoring questions, (ask from yourself)**
1. Can you check the result ?
	make sure code works
2. Can you derive the result differently ?
	using different approaches.
3. Can you understand it at a glance ?
	how intuitive is your solution ?
4. Can you use the result or method for some other problem ?
5. Can you improve the performance of your solution ?
	mainly on time complexity and space complexity
	(Ex: try to avoid bunch of nested loops.)
6. Can you think of other ways to refactor ?
	does you code follow company guideline/style guide ?
	does it follow conventions of the language ?
7. How have other people solved this problem ?

Ex: Write a function which takes in a string returns counts of each character in the string. 
Complete solution: version 1
```js
function charCount(str){
	var obj = {};
	for(var i = 0; i < str.length; i++){
		var char = str[i].toLowerCase();
		//check the charcters are alphanumeric
		if (/[a-z0-9]/.test(char)){
			if (obj[char] > 0){
				obj[char]++;
			} else{
				obj[char] = 1;
			} 
		}
	return obj;
}
```

Complete solution: version 2(changed for aesthetical purposes)
```js
function charCount(str){
	var obj = {};
	//using for-of loop instead of a traditional for loop.
	for(var char of str){
		char = char.toLowerCase();
		if (/[a-z0-9]/.test(char)){
			if (obj[char] > 0){
				obj[char]++;
			} else{
				obj[char] = 1;
			} 
		}
	return obj;
}
```

Complete solution: version 3(removed multi lined if condition)
```js
function charCount(str){
	var obj = {};
	for(var char of str){
		char = char.toLowerCase();
		if (/[a-z0-9]/.test(char)){
			// of obj[char] is true, increment it's value by if it's false, assign 1.
			obj[char] = ++obj[char] || 1;
		}
	return obj;
}
```

Complete solution: version 4
We used a regular expression(regexp) to check if the char is alphanumeric. 
But JavaScript regular expression's performance can be depend on the work we are doing and the browser we are using. 
Instead of using regular expression, we can use JavaScript built-in function 'charCodeAt' and our own function to check if a char is an alphanumeric, to improve the program. 

```js
function charCount(str){
	var obj = {};
	for(var char of str){
		if (isAlphaNumeric(char)){
			obj[char] = ++obj[char] || 1;
		}
	return obj;
}

function isAlphaNumeric(char){
	var code = char.charCodeAt(0);
	if (!(code > 47 && code < 58) && //numeric(0-9)
		!(code > 64 && code < 91) && //upper(A-Z)
		!(code > 96 && code < 123)) { //lower(a-z)
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

```