Did some changes to the order-form task based on Nuwan's recent feedbacks. Mainly about the promotional user flow, PubSub model's validation channels, the custom hook implemented to do the scroll up function and the place Order button.

Currently, the scroll up function executes when an input field is empty, like when user has missed it.
On the last call with Nuwan we discussed that it's better to implement the scroll up function in a way that it executes even some input fields have invalid details, not only on empty fields. 
So I will have to do some changes in the Zustand store again I will work on that today. 

Complete the functional part of the task to implement an eye icon in the 
customer portal's Account log's select orders table. 
I Need the designs and finalized user requirement to complete it.

****
### 5 month review
**Company**
My idea about the Calcey.
Good culture.
Good environment. 
Good people. 
I'm very lucky start my career around these people. 
FFF team is a very well balanced team. 

**Work**
Best practices are well applied to the FFF code base so it was a good start for me.
I saw that whenever we are implementing a new feature into the code base, Devs are not just thinking about the feature and the current situation but also they have to think about what can be the future requirements, and how can we fine-tune our code. They always deliver their best.
(Saw the responsibility they are taking and being responsible for it.)

I saw how team members are thinking about the project in a business aspect, not just as a project. 
It was an opportunity for me to understand that being a developer is not just about writing codes and testing them, we are dealing with another business, if the client is winning, we are also a part of that.

I saw how team the is handling practical issues that we are face while working.
Like merge conflicts, managing leave days and ongoing work, 
Saw how they are communicating with each other. 

**Regrets**
I didn't get the opportunity to see the earlier stages of this project BCZ FFF is an already built product with a very clean code base. 
I missed the part where team handling user requirements, finalizing the architecture and designs. 

study - work balance. 

Request the sticker. 
