**Violation of privacy** : Accessing private e-mail and computer records to collect and sharing information about individuals gained from their visits to internet web sites and newsgroups. 
**Computer monitoring** : Always knowing where a person is, especially as mobile and paging services become more closely associated with people rather than places. 
**Computer matching** : Using customer information gained from many sources to market additional business services. 
**Unauthorized personal filling/Identity theft** : Collecting telephone numbers, email addresses, credit card numbers and other personal information to build individual customer profiles. 

### Privacy Laws
##### 1. U.S. electronic Communication Privacy Act & Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
Prohibit intercepting data communication messages, stealing destroying data or trespassing in federal-related computer systems.
##### 2. Children's Online Privacy Protection Act(COPPA)
Requires websites that collect information about children under the age of 13 to post a privacy policy & adhere to certain information sharing restrictions.

##### 3. U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act(HIPPA)
Intended to create safeguard the unauthorized use, disclosure or distribution of and individual's health-related information  without their specific consent or authorization. 

#### Individual Efforts to Protect Privacy
- Find out what is stored about you in existing database. 
- Be careful when you share information about yourself. 
- Be proactive in protecting your privacy.
- Take extra care when purchasing anything from web site. 