#### 1. To output a line
```c#
Console.WriteLine("Hello,");
Console.WriteLine("World!");
Console.Write("My name is John.")
```
```
Hello,
World!
My name is John.
```
- `WriteLine` outputs the provided text and then adds a new line character `\n` the the end.
- `Write` method appends only the text. 
- `System` class must be imported to use `Console` methods. 
	`using System;`
#### 2. Data Types
Main Data Types are,
1. Int
2. Float
3. String
4. Bool
Syntax,
```C#
dataType variableName = value;
//Ex
int myAge = 23;
tring userName = "John Doe";
```
- C# allow to write `var` instead of the data type. Useful when the developer doesn't know what's going to be the data type before hand.

Additionally, C# provide a range of data types, 
1. Numeric types
	- `int` (32-bit signed integers)
	- `long` (64-bit signed integers)
	- `short` (16-bit signed integers)
	- `byte` (8-bit unsigned integers)
	- `double` (64-bit floating-point numbers)
	- `float` (32-bit floating-point numbers)
	- `decimal` (for precise decimal calculations)
2. `bool` : Boolean
3. `char` : Single character
4. `Structs` : user defined data types
5. `string` : text data
6. `object` : Base class for all reference type
7. Arrays : Collection of elements of the same data type.
8. `void` : Represent the absence of a value.
9. Nullable Types
#### 3. Take user inputs
- `Console.ReadLine()` method is used to take user inputs.
```C#
string useName = Console.ReadLine();

console.WriteLine("Hello, " + userName + ", nice to meet you.")
```
#### 4. Type conversions
- Compatible small type will be converted a large type automatically. (implicit conversion)
	Ex: Converting an `int`(32-bit) to a `long`(64-bit).
- Others has to convert manually. AKA casting. 
To cast a data type, type the desired data type in front of the value you want to convert. 
```C#
char character = '3';
int num = (int)character;
```

*Convert class methods,*
`Convert` class in C# provides static methods for type conversions between various datatypes. These methods offer more control and handle edge cases compared to simple casting operators. 
- `Convert.ToInt32(value)` 
- `Convert.ToDouble(value)`
- `Convert.ToString(value)`
```C#
//converting the user input into an integer
int num1 = Convert.ToInt32(Console.ReadLine());
```
