**Server-Side Evaluation**
	Most of the query should be executed on the server side because databases are optimized for such operations. The database server does the heavy lifting, filtering, and aggregating data before sending the results back to the application.

**Client-Side Evaluation**
	If Entity Framework encounters an operation that it cannot translate to SQL (e.g., a custom method call or certain C# constructs), it will default to client evaluation.
- In these type of scenarios where part or all of the LINQ query is executed on the client side(application memory) rather than on the database server. 
- ==The results of the query up to that point are fetched from the database, and the remaining operations are performed in memory on the client side.==

### Problem with Client Evaluation
Since the result of the query fetch from the database up to the failure point, this can leads to,
1. Fetching more data from the database than necessary 
2. Processing large data in the memory than processing them in the database itself
3. Databases are designed to handle data filtering, sorting and aggregation efficiently. Moving these operations to the client side can reduce the efficiency of your application. 

#### Example
```C#
var result = dbContext.Products
	.where(p => CustomFilter(p))
	.ToList()
```
`CustomFilter` is a method that EF can not translate to SQL.
The entire query might be evaluated on the client side.

To avoid client evaluation, only use constructs and methods that can be translated into SQL by Entity Framework. 
Ex:
```C#
var result = context.Products
	.Where(p => p.Price > 180)
	.ToList();
```

### Configure Client evaluation Behavior in EF Core
Handle client evaluations using the `DbContextOptionsBuilder`. 
```C#
optionsBuilder
    .UseSqlServer(connectionString)
    .ConfigureWarnings(warnings => warnings.Throw(RelationalEventId.QueryClientEvaluationWarning));
```
Now any client evaluation will throw an exception, making it easier to identify and fix such issues during development.
****
#### Get control over client evaluation
.NET EF provide certain methods can trigger explicit client-side evaluation. 

1. **Select() :** If you use a `Select()` clause with logic that cannot be translated to SQL, it forces the subsequent parts of the query to be evaluated on the client.
```C#
var query = context.Products
	.Select(p => new { p.Id, CustomProperty = CustomLogic(p) }) // CustomLogic can't be translated to SQL
	.ToList();
```

2. **ToList(), ToArray(), ToDictionary() :** execute the query and bring the data into memory, allowing further LINQ operations to be evaluated on the client side.
```C#
var list = context.Products.ToList(); // Switch to client-side evaluation
var filteredList = list.Where(p => CustomFilter(p));
```

3. **AsEnumerable() :** Converts the query result to an `IEnumerable<T>` and switch to client evaluation for subsequent operations. 
```C#
var query = context.Products
	.AsEnumerable() // Switch to client-side evaluation
	.Where(p => CustomFilter(p));
```

4. **AsAsynenumerable() :** Converts the query to an `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` and allows for client-side evaluation in asynchronous scenarios.
```C#
var asyncQuery = context.Products.AsAsyncEnumerable(); // Switch to client-side evaluation
await foreach (var product in asyncQuery)
{
    // Client-side logic
}
```
