- Models the process steps/use case activities of the system.
- Represent the dynamics of a system.
- Similar to a flow chart. 
- Graphically show the work flow of a system.

- Show the flow of control from activity to activity in the system. 
- They show what activities can be done in parallel. 
- Also shows alternate paths through the flow.
- Used to model the behavior in a business process independent of object. 

- After creating a use-case diagram, activity diagrams can be created to represent,
	the flow across use cases or 
	the flow within a particular use case

- Activity diagram contains,
	1. Activities
	2. Transitions between activities
	3. Decision points
	4. Synchronization bars
	5. Swim lanes

#### Creating Activity Diagrams
Steps, 
1. Choose a business process.
2. Identify set of activities necessary to support the business process.
3. Identify the control flow and nodes necessary to document the logic of the business process.
4. Identify the object flows and nodes necessary to support the logic of the business process. 
5. Layout and draw the diagram. 

#### Verifying and Validating the business process and functional models
- We need to verify that the activity diagrams, use-case descriptions and use-case diagrams describe the same functional requirements. 
- We can manually check those diagrams by a walkthrough. 
Members in a walkthrough meetings,
1. The presenter
	The person who is responsible for the diagram/representation being reviewed.
2. Recorder/Scribe 
	A Member of the analysis team.
	Carefully takes the minutes of the meeting by recording all significant events that occur during the walkthrough. All errors that are uncovered must be documented.
3. Other people who raise issues regarding the maintenance representation. 

#### Functional Model
Representations of the functional model,
1. Activity diagram
2. Use-case description
3. Use-case diagram

