#pricing_and_support 

### 1. Pay for what yo use.
pay for exactly the amount of resources that you actually use, without requiring long-term contracts or complex licensing.

### 2. Pay less when you reserve.
Some services offers reservation options that provide a significant discount compared to on-demand instance pricing.

Ex: 
Amazon EC instance Saving plan allows you to save up to 72% over the equivalent on-demand instance capacity.

### 3. Pay less with volume-based discounts when you use more. 
Some services offer tiered pricing, so the per-unit cost in incrementally lower with increased usage. 

Ex: the more Amazon s3 storage space you use, the less you pay for it per GB.


### AWS Pricing Calculator
The AWS Pricing Calculator lets you explore AWS services and create an estimate for the cost of your use cases on AWS. 
- You can organize your AWS estimates by groups which reflects how your company is organized.
	Ex: Cost estimates for HR, Cost estimates for Project_1.
- After you have created an estimate, you can save it and generate a link to share it.
- Using pricing calculator, you can review an estimated comparison of different resources with different options.
	Ex: If you are not sure which AWS region or EC2 instance type would be the most cost-efficient,
	You can enter details such as the OS, Memory, input/output requirements and then you can review an estimated comparison of different EC2 instance types across the AWS regions. 

EXAMPLES :-

### Amazon EC2 
you pay for only the compute time that you use while your instances are running. 
Price includes,
	1. each Amazon EC2 instance type that has been used.
	2. The amount of Amazon EBS storage space that has been provisioned. 
	3. The length of time that Elastic Load Balancer has been used. 
If all the time usages are under the threshold in the AWS Free tier, the account owner would not have to pay for any Amazon EC2 usage.

### Amazon S3
consider the following,
1. Storage
	pay for only the storage that you use, Based on objects' size, storage classes, how long have you stored each object during the month.
2. Requests and data retrievals
	pay for requests make to your Amazon s# objects and buckets. 
	Ex: Every time a user request for a images that you have included in you website which is hosted in the S3 bucket, that counts for the payment.
3. Data transfer
	No cost to transfer data between different Amazon S3 buckets or from Amazon S3 to other services within the same AWS region.
	No cost for data transferred into Amazon S3 from the internet or out to Amazon CloudFront. 
	No cost for data transferred out to an Amazon EC2 instance in the same AWS region as the Amazon S3 bucket. 
	Any other cases will be count for payments. 
4. Management and replication
	Have to pay for storage management features enabled on your account's Amazon S3 buckets.
		Ex: Amazon S3 inventory, analytics, object tagging.

Prices will be count considering,
	1. The number of request to add or copy objects into a bucket.
	2. The number of requests to retrieve objects from a bucket.
	3. The amount of storage space used. 