#pricing_and_support 
When you have multiple AWS accounts, you can manage all of them in **AWS Organizations** service. 
Instead of having to pay an AWS bill for every single account, you can roll those bills up into one bill using AWS Organizations by the owner of the organization. This feature is called **Consolidated Billing.**
	But you still can view your AWS bill in an itemized fashion.

**Consolidated billing** feature is free for all AWS users. 

Benefits,
- Simplifies the billing process.
- AWS offer bulk pricing. 
	Each individual account may only have small amount of usage, but you can get the bulk discount pricing because of the aggregate across all accounts in the Organization.
- If you have savings plans or if you are using reserved instances for EC2, it can be shared across AWS accounts in the organization. 

The default maximum number of accounts allowed for an organization is 4, but you can contact AWS support to increase the quota. 

Ex: Amazon S3 offers lower per-GB transfer prices for the next 40TB data transfers for the accounts which have already transferred 10TB. 

If you have 3 amazon accounts in your organization.
- Acc 1 has transferred 2TB of data.
- Acc 2 has transferred 5TB of data.
- Acc 3 has transferred 7TB of data.

In this case,
No individual account has passed the 10TB limit and eligible for the lower per-GB rates for next 40TB.

If those 3 accounts were linked into a organization, 
total S3 transfers are (2+5+7) = 14TB.

With consolidated billing, all of those 3 accounts will receive a portion of the 40TB lower per-GB rates offer based on the usages of those individual accounts. 
	Acc 3 will will receive the greater portion of the overall volume discount because it has transferred 7TB of data.