#pricing_and_support 
### Basic Support
Every customer gets AWS Basic support free.
Benefits of Basic supports,
	1. 24/7 customer service
	2. Documentation
	3. Whitepapers
	4. Support forums
	5. AWS Trusted Advisor
	6. AWS Personal Health Dashboard
- Gives you alerts when your resources might be impacted.
- You can contact AWS for billing questions and service limit increases. 
### Developer Support
Features,
	1. Includes everything in Basic plan.
	2. Email access to customer support
		24 hours response time on any problem.
		Response time of less than 12 hours in case your systems are impaired.

- Ideal for business that are experimenting with AWS or setting up tests or proof of concepts. 
- Pay by the month pricing and require no long term contracts. 
	Developer plan has the lowest cost among all other plans. 
### Business Support
Features,
	1. Includes everything in Basic and Developer plans.
	2. All AWS Trusted Advisor checks.
	3. Direct phone access to cloud support engineers.
		4 hours response time if your productions system is impaired. 
		1 hour response time if your productions system us down.
	4. Access to Infrastructure event management.
- For a extra fee, we can help you plan for massive events like brand new launches or global advertising blitzes. 

### AWS Enterprise On-Ramp Support
For companies migrating production and business critical workloads to AWS.
Features,
	1. Includes everything in the Basic, Developer, Business plans.
	2. 30 minutes response time for business critical workloads.
	3. Access to a pool of Technical Account Managers (TAMs).
		Proactive guidance and coordinate access to programs and AWS experts as needed.

### AWS Enterprise Support
Ideal for companies running mission-critical workloads.
Features,
	1. Everything includes Previous plans.
	2. 15 minutes response time for business critical workloads.
	3. Designated Technical Account Manager(TAM)
		Proactively monitor your environment and assist with optimization. 
	4. Access to proactive reviews, workshops and deep dives. 

### TAMs
- TAM are part of the concierge support team that comes with both Enterprise support options.
- They provide infrastructure event management, well-architected reviews and operations reviews. 
- In Enterprise On-Ramp your engagement with TAMs is rate limited.
- Rate limits don't apply in AWS Enterprise support. 

### Well-Architected Framework
- TAMs work with customers to review architectures using the well-architected framework.
- Architectures are checked against the six pillars of the well-architected framework,
	1. Operational excellence
	2. Security
	3. Reliability
	4. Performance Efficiency
	5. Cost Optimization
	6. Sustainability
- The job of a TAM is much more than just handling trouble tickets. 
	AWS support looks at the customer holistically, not just if they have problems, but  how can we help them be successful.