Effective telecommunication services increases customer services. The person who answers the phone(receptionist) is "the face of the company" as he/she is the first interaction the customer will have with the company.
Hence it is important to grab this opportunity and ensure that the caller will stat connected without going elsewhere.
Research shows that 90% of the customers who stop doing business with a particular company have experienced(at least once) poor customer service.
#### Positive Tone
A friendly welcoming and positive tine will put the customer at ease and encourage him/her to do business with the company. 
A negative tone may annoy or discourage them even if you speak the welcoming words. 
#### Clear Enunciation
Clear enunciation contributes to better understanding of your message which results in effective communication. 
To maintain clear enunciation, 
- Speak clearly
- Use simple language
- Do not rush or be too slow when talk
#### Be Sincere
Answer the phone with a sincere intension to help caller. This builds trust between the customer(caller) and the company. Have empathy, be honest, be compassionate and genuine. 
#### Active Listening
When using active listening, the customer feels that his/her concern are well addressed and it leads to customer satisfaction. Ensuring happy customer will repeat business and may even lead to referral for your business via word of mouth or social media. 
#### Answering a business call
Answering a business call is more than passing messages. You are the representative of your company or brand. Therefore, answer with responsibility. 
#### Tips
- In case you want to put the caller on hold, ask her/him whether it is alright. Callers may not like being ordered to hold or keep holding for too long. 
- Thank the caller for holding.
- Don't keep the caller holding for too long. In such a case, take down his/her contact details and call back. 
- Avoid excuses at all times. 
	Callers call for a solution, not to hear excuses !
- Providing spoken feedback is important. In the absence of such signals, the caller might wonder whether you are actually listening. 
- Being able to control the conversation is an essential skill. 
	If your caller gets off the subject, you should be able to take control of the conversation smoothly without making him feel offended. 
- Leaving a positive last impression is as equally important as the first impression in a business call. 
	"We appreciate your business."
	"We value your feedback, thank you !"
