Think of an interview as an opportunity,
	to meet face to face
	to discuss your qualifications
	to assess your ability and skills
	to demonstrate your skills and personality 
	to assess the employer and the job you are applying for
#### Facing an Interview
- Conduct some research about the company before you go. 
- Be punctual and be polite. 
- Go in when you are called in and greet the interviewer politely with a smile. 
- Do not sit until you are offered a seat. When offered, say "Thank you" and sit down.
- Prepare your introduction and key points. 
- Smile, be natural and speak with confidence. 
- Dress for success.
	Dress smart, be neat and clean.
- Come at least 15 minutes prior to your appointment time. 
- Be open and honest. 
- Do not talk about salary or benefits(unless they ask you)
#### Conducting an Interview
- Consider the purpose and prepare question.
- Scan through the documents provided by interviews. 
- Thank the interviewee for taking part. 
- Explain the purpose.
- Ask question that you prepared. 
- Analyze the results and take a decision. 
#### Probable Interview Question
- Tell us about yourself.
	Always focus on your strengths relevant to the job.
	You may tell the interviewer about your other skills as well.
- Would you call yourself a team player ?
	Yes. Support your answer with evidence from past experience. 
- Why should we employ you ?
	List your strength that are relevant to the job.
- Do you have offers from other companies ?
	Be honest. Whatever your answer is, it should match your career goals. 
- What salary are you expecting ?
	Try not to get into salary details early unless you are asked. 
	Try to know the salary range of your requesting position before hand. 
	You may tell them that you would accept a salary that the company would think reasonable for you. 
- How much do you think you are worth ?
	Be honest. Do not under estimate or over estimate yourself.
- What kind of a culture are you comfortable with ?
	Be clear about your preference.
	This way, the employer would get clear picture of your preference. 
- What is more important to you, salary or growth opportunity ?
	This will reveal the real you. 
	You may tell them that you value growth opportunities more with a reasonable salary.
- What do you know about our company ?
	Do not give your opinions about the company.
	Stick to reported facts that you have gathered such as product portfolio, size, income, customer, etc.
- Tell us about your strength and weaknesses
	Remember to state both strength and weaknesses. Be careful that the weaknesses you mention are not constructed as problems areas that could negatively impact the company. 
- Where do you see yourself in 5 or 10 years ?
	Talk about your positive goals that bear a positive impact on the company as well. 
- What are your plans for higher studies ?
	Once again, talk about the positive plans that are related to the company.
#### Types of Interviews
- Case Interviews
- Behavior Based Interviews
- Telephone Interviews
- Video conference Interviews
#### Case Interviews
- Used to asses logical thinking and problem solving skills 
- Aims to solve problems on the spot. 
- Classical business cases are used to test analytic ability, logical thought process, creativity and comfort with quantitative analysis.
#### Behavior/Attitude based Interview
- Designed to determine is a candidate possesses certain key competencies. 
- Use specific examples from work history, education and extracurricular activities to demonstrate the skill the interviewer is assessing. 
- By asking these questions, the interviewer is not just trying to see how successfully you solved problems but also the strategies and skills you used to do.
Ex: 
	Question: "Tell me about a time when you handled a challenging situation."
	Question: "Tell me about a goals you set and reached and how you achieved it."
#### Telephone Interviews
- Telephone interviews are often conducted by employers in the initial interview round of the hiring process.
- These interviews help the employer to screen and shortlist the candidates on the candidate's experience, qualifications and salary expectations pertaining to the position and the company. 
	Hence the telephone interview saves the employers' time. 
Ex:
	Question: "Describe yourself."
		Market yourself well but leave out unnecessary information.
	Question: "Why are you applying for this position ?"
		Be positive, say it's not merely due to salary but you need to do your best for the company whilst improving yourself. 
	Question: "Why do you want to work here ?"
		Say something good and positive about the company.
	Question: "What are your salary expectations ?"
		If you are not an experienced employee, don't be demanding just ensure that you are not underpaid. If you a fresh graduate you may say that you value experience the most.
#### Video Conference Interview
A video conference interview allows the employer/recruiter to use a video conference call to conduct a long distance, face-to-face interview with a job seeker. 
To face a video conference,
- Find a quite, well-lit place, free from disturbance.
- Ensure your internet connection is stable. 
- Check whether your computers audio is working.
- Ensure your webcam is working.
- Close any unnecessary applications. 
- Dress professionally.  
- Have a pen, notepad and coy of your resume on your desk.
- When listening, nod and smile to show you are engaged. 
- Use hand gestures when appropriate.
- Put your phone in silent mode. 

