Constructors are special functions of a class that is used to initialized objects of a class. 
- They are invoked/called automatically whenever an object is created. 
- If we do not create a default constructor, compiler will automatically creates a default constructor.
- Single class can be have multiple constructors.

Rules of declaring a constructor,
	1. Constructors do not have return types.
	2. Constructor must have the same name as a the class.
	3. Constructor should be public.
- Constructors can be declared inside the class and outside the class as well using the scope resolution operator `::`.

***Syntax :***
```C++
class Class_name
{
	int x;
	
	public:
		Class_name(data_type parameter1,...) {
			this -> x = parameter1;
			...
		}
};
```

### Types of Constructors
1. Default constructors
2. Parameterized constructors
3. Copy constructors

#### 1. Default constructor
Default constructor is the constructor which has no any parameters and can either declared explicitly or can be generated automatically. 
If we don't create a constructor of our own, the compiler will generate it for us. 
Default constructor will assign default values to the member variables such as null and 0.

***Syntax to explicitly create a default constructor :***
```C++
class Class_name
	public:
	Class_name () = default;
```

#### 2. Parameterized Constructor
Parameterized constructor take one or more arguments and is used to initialize objects with custom values.
Ex: 
```C++
class Animal
{
	string name;
	int legs;

	public:
		Animal(string name, int legs) {
			this -> name = name;
			this -> lges = legs;
		}
};
```

#### 3. Copy Constructor
Copy constructor is used to create a new object by copying the values from an existing object of the same class.
- This constructor requires a reference of an existing object to be copied as the parameter.

Ex:
```C++
class Person 
{
	string name;
	int age;
	public:
		//defualt constructor
		Person() {}
		//parametaried construcotr(custom constructor)
		Person(string name, int age):name(name), age(age) {}
		//copy construcotr
		Person(const Person &other):name(other.name), age(other.age){}
};

itn main()
{
	Person person1; //defualt constructor
	Person person2("Steve Rogers", "30"); //parameterized constructor
	Person person3(person2); //copy constructor
}
```

### Constructor overloading
Like function overloading, constructor overloading means having multiple constructor varies in the number of arguments.

Ex:
```C++
class Person
{
	string name;
	int age;
	int nic;
	
	public:
		Person(string name, int age):name(name), age(age) {}
		Person(string name, int age, int nic):name(name), age(age), nic(nic) {}
};
```

### Destructors
Destructor is also a special function which deletes or destroys the object as soon the object goes out of scope or explicitly deleted using `delete` operator.
Destructors are used to clean up any resource that the object may have allocated, such as memory or file handles.
- It's also same the class name with a tilde(~) sign.
- They can take any arguments nor the return values.
- Destructors can not be overloaded.
Ex:
```C++
class Person
{
	string name;
	int age;
	public:
		//constructor
		Person(string name, int age):name(name), age(age) {}
		//destructor
		~Person() {
			cout << "Deleting Person object..." << endl;
		}
};
int main()
{
Person person1("Tony Stark", 30);
return 0; 
}
```
When this code run and return 0 at the end, it's where Person object's scope gets end. Then compile runs the destructor and free the allocated memory.