Requirements for a system are the descriptions of the services that a system should provide and the constraints on its operations.
These requirements reflect the need of customer for a system that serves a certain purpose. 
*The process of finding out, analyzing and checking these services and constraints is called requirements Engineering(RE)*

#### What's a Requirements ?
A requirement is 
	simply a high-level, abstract statement of a service that a system should provide or a constraint on a system 
OR
	a detailed, formal definition of a system function.


> [!NOTE] Requirement Abstraction
> “If a company wishes to let a contract for a large software development project, it must define its needs in a sufficiently abstract way that a solution is not pre-defined. The requirements must be written so that several contractors can bid for the contract, offering, perhaps, different ways of meeting the client organization’s needs. Once a contract has been awarded, the contractor must write a system definition for the client in more detail so that the client understands and can validate what the software will do. Both of these documents may be called the requirements document for the system.”
> `-` Davis, Researchers

#### Types of Requirements
1. **User requirements**
	User requirements are about what problem the system is solving for the user and how it should behave.
	- Focus on what the users need from the system. 
	- Describe the functionalities and features from the end-user's point of view. 
	- Uses statements in natural language and diagrams.
	Written for customers. 
Ex:
```
The Mentcare system shall generate monthly management reports showing the cost fo drugs prescribed by each clinic during that month.
```
2. **System requirements**
	Specify the technical details of how the systems will be built to meet the user requirements. 
	- Involves defining the system architecture, hardware, software and their behaviors.
	- Translate the user's need into concrete specifications for the development team.
Ex: 
```
1.1 On the last working day of each month, a summary of the drugs prescribed, their cost and the prescribing clinics shalle be generated. 
1.2 The system shall generate the report for printing after 17.30 on the last working day of the month. 
1.3 A report shall be created for ech clinic and shall list the individual drug names, the total number of prescriptions, the numbers of doses prescribed and the cost fo the presvribed drugs. 
1.4 If drugs are available in different dose units(eg. 100mg, 20mg) separate reports shalle be created for each dose unit.
1.5 Access to drug cost reports shall be restricted to authorized as listed ona management access control list. 
```

#### Project stakeholders
A stakeholder is any individual or an organization that is actively involved in a project or whose interest might be affected as a result of project execution or completion.

Types of stakeholders,
- The project manager
- The project team
- The project sponsor
- The performing organization.
- The partners.
- The client.
- The 'rest' who might be affected  by the project output. 

