An experience is what a person lives, experience while doing something.
Ex: 
	A user will experience the interaction with a new app in their mobile phone.
	Citizen will experience commuting differently thanks to a new commuting and transport app.

Experiences are lived internally by users. It is the emotional and cognitive reaction that the user will have while using a product or service digitally or not. 
Experience is what is perceived, felt, done thought, pondered, decided, acted upon as users interact with the product or service. It is what happened behind their eyes.
It is the experience that drive a person to use and reuse your latest application. 

It starts way before when the user anticipates using the new product or service and builds expectations towards where he or she is about to live. 

So, experience cannot be designed as you cannot be inside the user to craft his or her experience. 
No one can control this emotional and cognitive reaction, but it possible to design the technology to create the optimal condition for this experience. 

This is why the practice of UX gets users involved at every step of the process.


### ISO 9241-210 Definition of UX
#### The International Standards Organization defines User Experience in its norm ISO 9241-210:

User experience is the user’s perceptions and responses that result from the use and/or anticipated use of a system, product or service.

Users’ perceptions and responses include the users’ emotions, beliefs, preferences, perceptions, comfort, behaviours, and accomplishments that occur before, during and after use.

User experience is a consequence of brand image, presentation, functionality, system performance, interactive behaviour and assistive capabilities of the interactive system, the user's internal and physical state resulting from prior experiences, attitudes, skills and personality, and the context of use.

Usability, when interpreted from the perspective of the users' personal goals, can include the kind of perceptual and emotional aspects typically associated with user experience. Usability criteria can be used to assess aspects of user experience.

Having an ISO definition standardizes the use of the concept and its potential application across industries and disciplines.
