It could be argued that the primary stakeholder of the UX process is the user in all its incarnations, but it's far form being the only one. 
But UX projects are multidisciplinary and they will gather number of stakeholders including,
	1. Client
	2. project leadership
	3. others who works on the project such as designers, technical writers, front-end developers and so on.

UX stakeholders belongs to two categories,
	1. the people who use UX expertise to make the project direct on the right direction.
	2. the people who rely on the work

The client and leadership team will get regular briefing on how the project is processing. But the UX process has at least three formalized activities that involve these high-level stakeholders.
	1. Stakeholder interview
	2. Kickoff meeting
	3. Vision workshop
All these 3 meetings occur before the design phase takes off.

#### 1. Stakeholder interview
At the early stage of the project, the UX lead should conduct interviews with the client and leadership to understand what they have in this project,
	What is at stake for them ?
	What is their vision ?
	What are their needs ?

#### 2. Kickoff meeting
A formal stakeholder meeting.
This meeting have the various points of view around the project to resolve.
The purpose of this meeting is to define the project,
	it's goals
	it's boundaries
	what it wants to achieve ?
	what is off limit ?
	what are success metric ? (KPIs)
This meeting should deliver a shared strategic vision. 

#### 3. Vision workshop
This meeting closes the IT discovery phase and launches the define phase. 
This is the time where all stakeholders(client, the leadership, project team) come together. 

In the first part of the workshop, each one presents what they've learned from their discovery activities. 
The second part of the workshop is usually spent doing a creative activity. This allows the group to synthesize the gathered information to a high level vision. 

This vision workshop is a great way to unite a team over a project. 