UX = User Experience
"User" means an individual interacting with the digital object in his/her role of interest, which could be that of a customer, citizen or an employee.

**Definitions of EX:**
1. "Employees' perceptions and related feelings caused by the one-off and cumulative effect of interactions with their employer's customers, leaders, teams, processes, policies, tools and work environment."
2. "Employee's journey with its employers over time."
3. "The sum of the effect caused by a person using a digital solution."

IT and digital interfaces are becoming increasingly important factors in shaping EX.
Ex: 
	Using internet to search information.
	Leveraging real-time information to make important decisions.
	Processing financial transactions.
	Communicating and collaborating.

Another trend that has made UX and even more important facilitating factor for EX is consumerization.
Consumerization describes the taking over of consumer technologies over traditional corporate systems within the workplace. 
Ex: Smart phones, light weight applications, cloud-based digital services.

since employees are also consumers, their expectations with respect to user experience have raised considerably as well. 
In other words, employees and especially the younger generation tend to dislike poor levels of usability in the applications they rely to complete their work tasks. 

Better EX facilitates recruiting leads to several other benefits including 
1. better employee satisfaction.
2. better engagement
3. productivity
4. higher employee retention
5. attract talents and build a digital workplace that will enable them to become more agile, more productive and more competitive. 

Improving EX is a top three priority for HR managers.

Unique features in EX,
1. Being comfortable with the business vocabulary
	Being involved in a U project in the context of EX requires being comfortable with business vocabulary. This will enable more effective interactions and collaboration with the stakeholders. 
2. Having to meet the needs of all employees.
3. Since end users are employees, it is easier to gain access to them and get them involved in testing and even designing.