### Types of security
##### 1. Legal and ethical issues
- Right to access certain information.
	Some information may be deemed to be private and cannot be accessed legally by unauthorized organization or persons. 
- There are laws governing privacy of information.
##### 2. Policy issues
- Governments, institutions and corporates maintain policies regarding what kind of information should not be made publicly available. 
Ex: Credit ratings and personal medical records.
##### 3. System related issues
- System levels at which various security functions should be enforced. 
Ex: Whether the security functions should be handled at the physical hardware level, the operating level or the DBMS level. 
##### Multiple security levels
The need in some organization to identify multiple security levels and to categorize the data and users based on these classifications. 
Ex: Top secrete, Secrete, confidential, unclassified

The security policy of the organization with respect to permitting access to various classifications of data must be enforced. 

### Threats to Database
##### 1. Loss of integrity
- Database integrity refers to the requirements of protecting information from improper modifications such as creating, inserting, updating data, changing the status of the data and deleting data.
- Integrity get lost if unauthorized changes are made to the data by either intentional or accidental acts. If data integrity is continued, use of the contaminated system could result in inaccuracy, fraud or erroneous decisions. 
##### 2. Loss of availability
- Database availability refers to making object available to a human user or a program who/which has a legitimate right to those data objects. 
- Loss of availability occurs when the use or program cannot access these objects. 
##### 3. Loss of confidentiality
- Database confidentiality refers to the protection of data from unauthorized disclosure.
- This could result in loss of public confidence, embarrassment or legal action against the organization. 

Objective to be considered when designing a secure database application,
1. Integrity
2. Availability
3. Secrecy
