We need to interview users to get to know their needs and behaviors. To do that we must have an interview guide. In real life we have to meet several user(potential users).

You can use the basic interview guide which includes six types questions/exchanges. 

1. An introduction
	Greet your user. 
	Introduce yourself. 
	Explain the the goal of the exercise.
2. Find out about your users commuting experience. 
	Ask your user about their typical path, their worst and best experience any why.
3. You can also ask for clarification if certain elements got your attention. 
	Prepare two or three questions that should help get a better and clearer understanding of his experience. 
4. Make sure you collected more than factual information.
	Dig deeper into your user's experience. 
	Make sure your participant shares his emotions while on the commute and his general impressions. (for example, a generally good experience may still include some friction points.)
	Use "Why are you saying this?" or "Tell me more about that."
5. Ask about what your user carries around during his commute. 
	How many bags ?
	How much do they weigh ?
	What technologies does he keep with at all times ?
	What's in hi 'urban survival kit?'
6. Reassure your participant
	He doesn't need to think of what would make his commute better. This is your job as a UX designer. 
	It's not recommended to ask that kind of question directly.

The goal here is **to understand his experience** and **identify any pain point** in order to ultimately identify **opportunities for improvement**.

Ex:
1. What kind of commute you are doing these days ?
2. How far you live from the school ?
3. Do you usually take your car to go to university ?
4. What is the difference between taking the car and public transport to get to your destination ?
5. What are the benefits of taking your car ?
6. What are the downsides of using your car ?
7. Tell me about the stuff you carry around ?
8. Does the stuff you carry have any impact on your choice of taking the car or public transport ?
9. Do you mind showing me those bags ? Is there stuff you always carry with you ?
10. What would be the usual style of commuting ?
11. What is your worst experience of commuting ?
12. Is there any special incident you remember that happened while you are commuting ?