A data model is a collection of concepts that can be used to describe the structure of a database which includes 
	describing data,
	data relationships
	data semantics and
	consistency constraints.

Most data models also include a set of *basic operations* for specifying retrievals and updates on the database. In additions, data models may allow database designers to specify a set of *user-defined* operations that are allowed on the database objects.

#### Categories of data models,
Categories based on the types of concepts they used to describe the database structure,
1. **High-level/Conceptual Data Models**
	Provide concepts that are close to how users perceive data.
2. **Representational/Implementation Data models**
	Provide concepts easily understood by end users, also not too far from how the data is stored in storage.
	Represent data by using record structures.
3. **Low-level/Physical Data Models**
	Provides concepts that describe details of how data is stored in computer storage media. 

#### 1. High-level/Conceptual Data Models
- Use concepts like **entities, attributes and relationships**.
	Ex: employee, department
- An attribute represent some property of an entity. 
	Ex: employee's name
- A relationship represent an association between two or more entities. 
	Ex: employee 'works in' department.
Ex: 
	Entity-relationship(ER) model
#### 2. Object Data Models
- New family of **high-level** data models.
- Development of object-oriented programming software-development methodology has led to the development of object oriented data model.
- It can be seen as extending the ER mode with notions of encapsulation, methods(functions) and object identity.
#### 3. Representational/Implementation data models
- A.K.A **Record based data models.**
	These models represent data by using record structures.
- The database contains a several types of fixed format records.
- Used frequently in traditional commercial DBMS.
- ==Relational data model is an example of representational data models.==
Ex: 
	Relational model
	Hierarchical model
	Network model
#### 4. Physical data models(PDM)
A physical data model (PDM) dives into the specifics of how data will be stored and organized within a particular database management system (DBMS). It acts like a blueprint for the database, providing a detailed view of its structure.
Describe how data is stored as files in computer by representing information.
Ex: records formats, ordering and access paths(indexing, hashes)
#### 5. Self-describing data models
In this model, **description of the data** and the **data values** are combined in the storage. 
In traditional DBMS, the description(schema) is separated from the data. 
Ex: 
	Including **XML** and many of the **key-value stores and NOSQL** systems that were recently created for managing big data. 
