Constraints can be expressed in a schema using a Data Definition Language(DDL).

The schema-based constraints includes,
1. **Domain Constraints**
2. **Key/Uniqueness Constraints**
3. **NOT NULL Constraints**
4. **Entity Integrity Constraint**
5. **Referential Integrity Constraints**

#### 1. Domain constraints
Governs the valid values that can be entered into a particular column(attribute) based on the,
- Data type constraints
	Ensures the entered data matches the columns data type.
	Ex: numbers for a numeric column
- Value ranges
	Limits the acceptable values within a specific range.
	Ex: age between 18 and 65
- Check constraints
	Defines a specific condition the data must fulfill to be valid.
	Ex: email address must contain an '@' symbol

#### 2. Key/Uniqueness constraints
- A relation(table) usually has one or more attributes whose values are distinct for each individual tuple. Such a subset of attributes from a relation is called a key attribute. 
This constraint specifies that key attributes' values can be used to identify each tuple uniquely. 
#### 3. NOT NULL Constraint
Prevents null values from being entered into a specific column, ensuring a value is always present.
#### 4. Entity Integrity Constraint
State that no primary key value can not be NULL.
If primary key is null you could have duplicate rows with missing values in the primary key column, leading to data inconsistencies and making it impossible to definitively identify specific records.
#### 5. Referential Integrity Constraint
The referential integrity constraint between two relations maintains the consistency among tuples in the two relations. 
Referential integrity is defined using foreign keys and it typically arise from the relationships among the entities.
- This means it validates that the values present in the foreign key of the child table actually exist as valid primary key values in the parent table.
Benefits,
1. Prevents orphan records
	Orphan record occurs when a foreign key. 
2. Ensure data consistency
3. Accurate relationships
4. Data integrity
5. Improved data management