Software development is 
	computer programming
	documenting
	testing and 
	bug fixing.
A **software development methodology**(model, process, life cycle) is a framework that is used to structure, plan and control the process of developing software systems. 

#### Problems in Software Development 
1. software engineering requires great deal of coordination across disciplines because,
- Almost infinite possibilities for design trade-offs across components.
- Mutual distrusts and lack of understanding across engineering disciplines.

2. Systems must be designed to last many years in a changing environment. 
3. Developing process must be efficient and effective. 
4. Tools uses to create the software may change as requirements change. 
5. User expectations
	User expectations increases as the technology become more and more sophisticated.
6. The mythical man-month factor
	Adding people(developers) to a project may not increase productivity.
	Adding people(developers) to a late project will just make it later. 
7. Communication
	The larger the project, the more difficult the communication problems become. 

#### Key Features of a Good Software
- Maintainability
	Software should be written in such way so that it can evolve to meet the changing needs of customers. 
- Dependability and Security
	Software should be written in a way that Users can trust and depend on those software products. They should not cause physical or economic damage in the event of failures. 
	Malicious users should not be able to access or damage the system.
- Efficiency
	software should not make wasteful use of system resources.
- Acceptability
	Software must be acceptable to the type of users which it is designed for. 
	It must be understandable, usable, compatible.

#### Software Engineering 
Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production from the early stages of system specification through to maintaining the system after it has gone into use. 

**Engineering Discipline :** Using appropriate theories and methods to solve problems bearing in mind organizational and financial constraints. 

**All Aspects of Software Production :** Not just technical process of development also project management and the development of tools, methods etc. to support software production.

It is usually cheaper in the long run, to use software engineering methods and techniques for software systems rather than just write the programs as if it was a personal programming project. 
For most type of systems, the majority of costs are the costs of changing the software after it has gone into use. 

#### Software Engineering Definitions
**Simple Definition**
	Designing, building and maintaining large software systems. 
**A Generic Definition**
	Use of systematic engineering approach in all stages of software development and project management to develop high quality and economical software using appropriate tools. 

Quotes about software Engineering from famous persons and organizations,


> [!NOTE] IEEE Standard 610.12
> "The application of systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software"

> [!NOTE] Sommerville
> "Software engineering is concerned with the theories, methods and tools for developing, managing and evolving software products"

> [!NOTE] B.W.Boehm
> "The practical application of scientific knowledge in the design and construction of computer programs and the associated documentation required to develop, operate and maintain them"

> [!NOTE] F.L. Bauer
> "The establishment and use of sound engineering principles in order to obtain economically software that is reliable and works efficiently on real machines"

#### Software Engineering Fundamentals
Some fundamental principles apply to all types of software systems, irrespective of the development techniques used.
- System should be developed using a managed and understood development process. (Different process and used for different types of software.)
- Dependability and performance are important for all types of system.
- Understanding and managing the software specification and requirements (What the software should do) are important. 
- You should reuse software components that has already been developed rather than write new software.

#### Key Activities of Software Process
- **Software Specification**
	Customers and engineers define the software that is to be developed and the constraints on its operations. (requirement gathering)
- **Software Development**
	Design and programme the software.
- **Software Validation**
	Software is checked to ensure that it is what the customer requires. 
- **Software Evolution**
	Modifying the software to reflect changing customer and market requirements. 

#### Key Challenges Facing in Software Engineering
- **Heterogeneity**
	Systems are increasingly required to operate as distributed systems across networks that include different types of computer and mobile devices.
- **Business and Social Challenges**
	Business and societies are changing rapidly with emerging economies and new technologies. Companies need to change their existing software and to rapidly develop new software. 
- **Scale**
	Software has to be developed across a wide range of scales, from small embedded systems in wearable devices to cloud-based systems that serves a global community.
- **Security and Trust**
	It is essential that we can trust the software we develop.

#### Software Engineering vs. System Engineering
System engineering is concerned with all aspects of computer-based systems development including hardware, software and process engineering. 
Software engineering is a part of this process which develop the software infrastructure, control, applications and databases in the system. 

Systems Engineers are involved in system specification, architectural design, integration and deployment. 

#### Software Engineering Diversity
The software engineering methods and tools used depend on the,
	type of application being developed,
	requirements of the customer and 
	background of the development team.

There is no universal set of techniques.

#### Web-based Software Engineering
Since the web is now a platform for running application, organizations are increasingly developing web-based systems rather than local systems.

Web services allow application functionality to be accessed over the web.
And web-based systems are complex distributed systems.

Cloud computing is an approach to the provision of computer services where applications run remotely on the 'cloud' servers. 

#### Features of Web-based Software Engineering
- **Software Reuse**
	Software reuses is the dominant approach for constructing web-based systems.
- In most cases, it's impractical to specify all the requirements for web-based systems in advance. So we use Incremental and Agile Development methodologies. 
- **Service-oriented systems**
	Software may be implemented suing service-oriented approach, where the software components are stand-alone web services.
- **Rich Interface**
	Interface development technologies such as AJAX, HTML5 are used in web-based systems.