JWT(Jason Web Token) is a compact, URL-safe way of representing claims, to be transferred between two parties. 
Commonly used for authentication and information exchange in web applications. 

#### Structure of JWT
A JWT is consist of 3 parts,(separated by dots.)
1. Header : 
	Contains metadata about the token. 
	Ex: the type of token,  the signing algorithm being used
2. Payload
	Contains the claims or data. Claims are statements about an entity(usually the user) and additional data. 
	There are three types of claims: registered, public, private
3. Signature
	Ensure the token wasn't altered. 
	It it created by taking 
	- the encoded header, 
	- the encoded payload, 
	- an encode secrete code and the algorithm specified in the header
These encoded details are separated by a dot(.) int the JWT.

Example JWT
```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6IkpvaG5Eb2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```

`eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9` : Encoded header
`eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6IkpvaG5Eb2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9` : encoded payload
`SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c` : Encoded secrete code and the algorithm

#### How JWT authentication works
1. User login
	The user sends login request with their credentials to the server. 
	The server validates the credentials. If they are correct, the server generates a JWT containing the user's identity and any other claims. 
This is an example request which our browser send to the server when we log in.
```http
POST /login
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "username": "JohnDoe",
  "password": "password123"
}
```
2. JWT creation
	Then the token will be created in the server by encoding the header, payload and signing the result key with a secret key using the specified algorithm. Then it will be sent to the client.
This is an example of respond which the server send to the client.
```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK Content-Type: application/json 
{ 
"token":"eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6IkpvaG5Eb2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c" 
}
```
3. The client stores the JWT(typically in storage or a cookie)
4. Accessing protected Routes
	For each subsequent request to a protected route, the client includes the JWT in the authorization header using the Bearer schema.
```http
GET /protected
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6IkpvaG5Eb2UiLCJpYXQiOjE1MTYyMzkwMjJ9.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
```
5. Token Verification
	The server receives the JWT and verifies its signature using the secrete key. 
	If the toke is valid, the server extract the user's information from the payload and process the request.
6. Respond
	If the JWT is valid and the user has the necessary permissions, the server processes the request and sends back the appropriate response. If the JWT is invalid or expired, the server returns an authentication error.

#### Benefits of JWT
- The token is small and can be sent via URL, POST parameter or inside and HTTP header.
- The token contains all the information required to authenticate a user. 
- The server doesn't need to store session data, making it easy to scale and manage. 

#### Security Considerations
- The secrete key used to sign the JWT must be kept secure.
- Toke should have an expiration time to minimize the impact of token theft. 
- Use HTTPS to protect tokens in transit. 
- Store token securely on the client side, avoiding exposure to XSS attacks. 