#security #organizations #ou
If you have multiple AWS accounts, you can use **AWS Organizations** to consolidate and manage multiple AWS accounts within a central location. 

- When you create an organization, it creates a **root** which is the parent container for all the accounts in your organization.
- Benefits,
	1. provides centralized management.
	2. consolidated billing for all member accounts
		able to use primary account to pay for all member accounts. (Bulk discounts can be added as a advantage of consolidated billings.)
	3. Hierarchical grouping of your accounts to meet security, compliance or budgetary needs.
		you can group AWS accounts into organizational units(OUs).
	4. Can have control over the AWS services and API actions that each account can access as an administrator of the primary account of an organization.
		You can use **Service control policies (SCPs)** to specify the maximum permission for member accounts/users/roles.
### Organizational Units(OUs)
- You can group accounts into organizational units to make it easier to manage accounts with similar business or security requirements. 
- When you apply a policy to an OU, all the accounts in the OU automatically inherit the permission specified in the policy.
- You can more easily isolate workloads or applications that have specific security requirements.
	Ex: If you company have accounts that needs certain regulatory requirements, you can put these accounts into one OU. 
	Then you can attach a policy to the OU that block all other AWS services that don't meet the regulatory requirements.

