#migration_and_innovation 
The AWS professional services team has created the **AWS Cloud Adoption Framework** that can help you manage this process through guidance. 

The framework organizes guidance into six areas(perspectives) focused on the different types of people that you will need to involve for the migration. Each perspective covers distinct responsibilities covered by different groups.
Those areas are,
	1. Business
	2. People
	3. Governance
		These 3 areas are focused on business capabilities. 
	4. Platform 
	5. Security
	6. Operation
		These 3 areas are focused on technical capabilities.
	Ex: 
		Business Analyst - Business
		HR - People
		Cloud Architect - Platform

Each perspective is used to uncover gaps in your skills and processes which are then recorded as inputs. 
These inputs are then used as the basis for creating what is called as **AWS Cloud Adoption Framework Action Plan**. 

### Business Perspective
ensure that IT aligns with business needs and that IT investments link to key business results. 
Roles,
	1. Business managers
	2. Finance managers
	3. Budget owners
	4. Strategy stakeholders

### People Perspective
Evaluate organizational structure and roles, new skills and process requirements and identify gaps. 
This helps prioritize training, staffing and organizational changes.
Roles,
	1. Human Resource
	2. Staffing
	3. People managers

### Governance Perspective
Ensure that you maximize the the business value and minimize risks. 
Understand how to update the staff skills and processes necessary to ensure business governance in the cloud. Manage and measure cloud investments to evaluate business outcomes. 
Roles,
	1. Chief Information Officer (CIO)
	2. Program managers
	3. Enterprise architecture
	4. Business analyst
	5. Portfolio managers

### Platform Perspective
Includes principles and patterns for implementing new solutions on the cloud, and migrating on-premises workloads to the cloud. 
Describe the architecture of the target state environment in detail.
Roles, 
	1. Chief Technology Officer (CTO)
	2. IT managers
	3. Solution architects

### Security Perspectives
Ensures that the organization meets security objectives for visibility, auditability, control and agility.
Roles,
	1. Chief /information Security Officer (CISO)
	2. IT security managers
	3. IT security analysts

### Operations Perspective
Helps you to enable, run. use, operate and recover IT workloads to the level agreed upon with business stakeholders. 
Define how day-to-day, quarter-to-quarter, year-to-year business is conducted. 
Roles,
	1. IT operations managers
	2. IT support managers



