#migration_and_innovation 
There are 6 common migration strategies. **(6 R's)**
	1. Rehosting
	2. Replatforming
	3. Refactoring/re-architecting
	4. Repurchasing
	5. Retaining
	6. Retiring

You decide which option is the best fit based on,
	time
	cost
	priority
	criticality. 
### 1. Rehosting
Known as **"Lift-and-Shift"** means moving applications without any changes into the cloud. 
All the benefits may not be found in rehosting. 

Sometimes it's easier to optimize applications later once they already live in the cloud. 

### 2. Re-platforming
Known as **"Lift, tinker and shift"** means, making few cloud optimizations to realize a tangible benefit. 
Optimization is achieved without changing the core architecture of the applications during the process. 

Ex: Taking existing MySQL database and re-platform it onto RDS MySQL without any code changes at all. 
	No code changes, optimization done. 

### 3. Retire
Retiring is the process of removing applications that are no longer needed. 
This can save cost and effort.

### 4. Retain
Retaining means keeping applications that are critical for the business in the source environment, but they are about to be deprecated(not yet).
As the time goes on, these applications can be deprecated where they live and ultimately retired. 

### 5. Repurchasing
This means moving from a traditional/old license to a software-as-a-service model. They take that fresh start as a part of the migration. 

Ex: 
A business might choose to implement the repurchasing strategy by migrating from a customer relationship management (CRM) system to salesforce.com.
OR
Ending license with outdated database vendor in favor of cloud native database offering. This fresh start turns out to as a part of the migration. 
	Total upfront expense goes up, but potential benefits could be substantial.
### 6. Refactoring / Re-architecting
Reimagining how an application is architected and developed by using cloud-native features. 

This is driven by a strong business need to add features, scale or performance that would be difficult to achieve in the application's existing environment or on-premises. 

Dramatic changes can be very beneficial to your enterprise but this will come at the highest initial cost in term of planning and human effort. 