#global_infrastructure_and_reliability #regions

Large groups of datacenters are called "Regions".
AWS builds regions to be closest to where the business traffic demands.
Ex: Sao Paulo, Dublin, Ohio... etc.
All the regions are connected through a high speed fiber network.
But each regions are isolated from every other region. 
	No data goes in or out of your environment without you explicitly granting permission.

Factors to determine the right region,
	1. Compliance with data governance and legal requirements.
	2. Proximity to your customers
	3. Available services within a region
	4. Pricing

## 1. Compliance with data governance and legal requirements.
Based on you company or the location, you might need to run your data within a specific area. 

Ex: Government/Law of the country require your business to isolate confidential data within the country.

With AWS your data is isolated to the region you choose, unless you explicitly with the right credentials and permissions request the data be exported. 

## 2. Proximity to your customers
Proximity means how close you to your customers. 
Based on the proximity data latency is a factor you need to consider.

So, locating close to your customer base is the right decision to makes. 

If your business is mainly operates in Singapore even though the majority of your customer base is in USA, you can choose a USA region the host your business with AWS while you still operates is Singapore. 

## 3. Feature Availability
Sometimes the closest regions may not have all the feature you want. 

Ex: If you need to use Amazon Bracket (Amazon's quantum computing platform), you need to choose the regions that already have the hardware installed. 

## 4. Pricing
Cost of service can vary from region to region base on some factors like Tax structure. 

Ex: It might cost 50% more to run the same workload out of the São Paulo(Brazil) Region compared to the Oregon Region(USA).


