### What is Agile ?
Agile is an iterative approach to project management that helps teams be responsive and deliver value to customers faster.

Since it's iterative, we plan out small increments, and they get feedback from the customer to see if they like what we are doing and then we adjust as we go along.

### Agile defining characteristics
Agile emphasizes,
- Adaptive plannings
	Don't plan out an entire year, plan out small iterations to see if we can deliver something of value to the customer and get feedback.

- Evolutionary development
	Our development is evolving over time.
	Instead of building the whole thing at once, we are building small increments and then we evolve & respond as we go. 

- Early delivery
	This is a key component of being agile. 
	Putting something in the customers hands, getting feedbacks from them to understand do they like it or not. Then we can decide should we 'pivot' or 'persevere'.

- Continual improvements
	since early deliveries, we can improve as a team and we continuously improve the product using customer feedbacks.

- responsiveness to change
	Since we haven't planned too far in advance, the customer sees the progress we've made, we can re-plan very quickly and we can be responsive to customer's needs.

### Agile Manifesto
We have come to value:
==***Individuals and interactions***== over process and tools.
==***Working software***== over comprehensive documentation.
==***Customer Collaboration***== over contract negotiations.
==***Responding to change***== over following a plan.

That is, while there is value in the items on the right, we value the items on the left more. 

It doesn't mean we don't have processing tools.
It doesn't mean we don't documentation.
It doesn't mean we don't negotiate contracts.
It doesn't mean we don't have a plan.

### Agile software development
- Agile software development is an iterative approach to software development consistent with the Agile manifesto. 
- It emphasize flexibility, interactively, and a high level of transparency. 
	Everybody knows what everyone else is working on,
	everybody feels responsible for delivering value to the customer.
- We use small, co-located, cross-functional, self-organizing teams.

### Key takeaway,
***Build what is needed, not what was planned.***
	If you build what was planned and customer doesn't like it, why did you bother building it ?
	
