3 roles in Scrum,
	1. Product owner
		The person who has the vision. The one who Decide to pivot or persevere.
		Product manager: job title
		Product owner: Scrum role
	2. Scrum master
		Work like mentors, the smartest person about the scrum, guiding the team to implement the scrum.
	3. Scrum team
		AKA development team. can be software engineers, testers, DevOps, business analysts and etc. 

### 1. Product Owner
- Represent the stakeholder interests.
	Stakeholder is whoever do the funding for the project.
- Works as a bridge between the stakeholders and the Scrum team.
- They also articulate the product vision.
	Product owner have to have the vision of where they are going.
- Product owner is the final arbiter of requirements questions.
	If anyone have any question about the requirements, product owner is the one they should meet, not the stakeholders.
- One of the job that product owner must do is making sure that backlog is sprint ready.
	Constantly re-prioritize the product backlog, adjusting any expectations.
- Product owner has the power to accept or reject each product increment, decide whether to ship, whether to continue development.

### 2. Scrum Master
- Facilitates the Scrum process.
	Smartest person in the room about scrum.
- They coach the team, mentor team members and they create an environment to allow the teams to be self-organizing.
- Scrum master shields the team from external interference to keep it 'in the zone'.
- Scrum master helps resolve impediments.
	If a team member mentioned any impediments during the daily scrum meeting, resolving that impediment is the scrum master's highest priority. 
	(this is where project manager differs from a scrum master.)
- Enforces sprint timeboxes.
	If the daily stand-up is 15 mins, it's scrum masters job to make it sure it get only 15 mins.
	If the sprint is 2 weeks, scrum master has to make sure it don't go over the two weeks.
- Captures the empirical data to adjust forecasts.
	looking at burndown charts and making sure that the teams is going to reach their goals.
- Has no management authority over the team. 

### 3. Scrum Team
- A cross-functional team consisting of,
	- developers
	- testers
	- business analysts
	- domain experts
	- others
	it's not just software engineer team we used to have in waterfall development.
- Self-organizing
	there are no externally assigned roles, everybody is equal,
- Self-managing, 
	self-assign their own work.
	the scrum team pull the work off the Kanban board, assign it to themself and starts working on it. 
- Membership: consist of 7 plus or minus 2. (5-9)
- Co-located
	most successful when located in one team room, particularly for the first few sprints.
- Dedicated
	most successful teams have long-term, fulltime members. they are not on multiple projects. 
- Negotiate commitments with the product owner - one sprint at a time.
- Has autonomy regarding how to reach commitments.
	they are not told how to do something, they are told what needs to get done.
