### Scrum Artifacts
#### 1. Product Backlog
Product backlog includes all the requirements for the product that haven't done yet. 
	Any story that are not in the current sprint, are in the product backlog.

#### 2. Sprint Backlog
Sprint backlog includes all the stories that you are going to do in the next 2 weeks/during the spring.

#### 3. Done Increment
A done increment is a product increment that is completed by the end of the sprint.


### Scrum Events
#### 1. Sprint Planning Meeting
This is where plan out the sprint. in that meeting we have the product owner, scrum master and the entire team planning out what to do next.

#### 2. Daily Scrum/Daily Stand-up Meeting
Happens everyday, usually in the same place, same time.
Discuss about what we are going to get done today and any impediments which can be relieved by the scrum master.

#### 3. Sprint
Two weeks in which everybody working.

#### 4. Sprint Review
This is the demo time. This is where you demonstrate what you've done to the stakeholders so they could see the advancement/new features.

#### 5. Sprint Retrospective
Retrospective is where the team reflects on what went well, what didn't go well, what can we change for the future.

### Benefits of Scrum
1. Higher productivity
2. Better quality
	team is engaged in what they are doing. they are running behavior driven developments, test driven developments...
3. Reduced time to market
	team is working in small increments.
4. Increased stakeholders satisfaction
	stakeholders don't have to be waiting months to see the what ever you build.
5. Better team dynamics
	everybody knows what everyone is working on and everyone chips in when somebody get stuck.
6. Happier employees
	employees know that they are in control, they are pulling things off the backlog, committing to the sprint.