We use objects in JavaScript to to collect a bunch of value and their frequencies. This is useful when you have multiple pieces of data/inputs.
Because of object's key-value style, we can directly access those value by referring to keys **(O(1))**. We don't have to iterate over the whole object to find a certain value. 
This can avoid the need for nested loops or O(N<sup>2</sup>) operations with arrays/strings. 

Ex: 
Write a function called 'same', which accepts two arrays and should return true if every value in the array has it's corresponding value squared in the second array, order isn't concern. The frequency of the values must be the same.

```
same([1,2,3], [4,1,9]) //true
same([1,2,3], [1,9]) //false
same([1,2,1], [4,4,1]) //false(must be the same frequency)
```

Naive solution: Time complexity = O(N<sup>2</sup>)
```js
function same(arr1, arr2){
	if(arr1.length !== arr2.length){
		return false;
	}
	for(let i = 0; i < arr1.length; i++){
		let correctIndex = arr2.indexOf(arr1[i] ** 2) //works like a loop
		//this is a nested loop then
		if(correctIndex === -1){
			return false;
		}
		arr2.splice(correctIndex,1)
	}
	return true;
}
```
At the beginning it checks if the number of elements are same.
In the loop, using the "indexOf" method, it checks for the index of the each arr1 element's squared value. If "indexOf" method finds the corresponding value, it returns the that index of the arr2,Then that element will be eliminated. Otherwise "indexOf" returns -1.
If arr2 has every squared values of arr1's vales, the arr2 will be empty at the end of the loop. Then it will return true. 
But if one of the squared value of arr1 isn't in the arr2, it will return false immediately. 

Refactored solution: Time Complexity = O(N)
```js
function same(arr1, arr2){
	if(arr1.length !== arr2.length){
		return flase;
	}
	let frequencyCounter1 = {}
	let frequencyCounter2 = {}
	
	for(let val of arr1){
		frequencyCounter1[val] = (frequenyCounter1[val] || 0) + 1
	}
	for(let val of arr2){
		frequencyCounter2[val] = (frequenyCounter2[val] || 0) + 1
	}
	
	for(let key in frequencyCounter1){
		if(!(key ** 2 in frequncyCounter2)){
			return false;
		}
		if(frequencyCounter2[key ** 2] !== frequencyCounter1[key]){
			return false;
		}
	}
	return true;
}
```
In this example, first we store array values in an object. Array values are used as keys, frequency of those values stored in those arrays are the values in the objects for the corresponding keys. 
Then we deal with those objects. 

For the fact: Two separate loops are vastly better than having a nested two loops.