Creating pointers or values that correspond to and index or position and move toward the beginning, end or middle based on a certain condition.
Very efficient for solving problems with minimal space complexity as well.

Ex: Write a function called 'zumZero' which accepts a sorted array of integers. The function should find the first pair where the sum is 0. Return and array that includes both values that sum to zers, or undefined is a pair doesn't exist. (assume that input array are already sorted.)
```
sumZero([-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3]) //[-3, 3]
sumZero([-2, 0, 1, 2, 3]) //undefined
sumZero([1, 2, 3]) //undefined
```

Naive Solution: 
Time complexity = O(N<sup>2</sup>)
Space complexity = O(1)
```js
function sumZero(arr){
	for(let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++){
		for(let j = i+1; j < arr.length; j++){
			if(arr[i] + arr[j] === 0){
				return [arr[i], arr[j]];
			}
		}
	}
}
```
First loop starts an pointer looking at an element in ther array and then inner loop search the entire rest of the array for a number that give 0 as the sum when added to the first loop's selected element. 

Refactored solution:
Ex: 
```js
sumZero([-4, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 5])
```
Since we know that the input array is already sorted, In this solution, we need to have two pointer.
First pointer starts at the beginning of the array and the second pointer starts at the end of the array. 
Let's say at the beginning, we have pointer on -4 and 5.
Then we add them together, (-4 + 5 = 1)
Since the addition is still positive we can conclude that pointer got more positive values. In order to get the 0 as the sum, we should reduce the positive values then. In order to do that, we move down the second pointer by 1 index.(because array is sorted.)
Then we get (-4 + 2 = -2)
Now negative values are more than the positive values. In order to reduce the negative values that our pointer are pointing at, we move up the first pointer by 1 index. 
(-3 + 2 = -1)
Repeat the process....(-2 + 2 = 0) These are the values we should return. 
In this method, we don't have to use nested loops and it takes fewer methods than the previous solution. 

Code,
```js
function sumZero(arr){
	let left = 0;
	let right = arr.length -1;
	while (left < right){
		let sum = arr[left] + arr[right];
		if(sum === 0){
			return [arr[left], arr[right]];
		}
		else if (sum > 0){
			right--;
		}
		esle{
			left++;
		}
	}
}
```
Time complexity - O(N)
Space Complexity - O(1)

Ex: Implement a function called **countUniqueValues,** which accepts a sorted array, and counts the unique values in the array. There can be negative numbers in the array, but it will always be sorted.
1. countUniqueValues([1,1,1,1,1,2]) // 2
2. countUniqueValues([1,2,3,4,4,4,7,7,12,12,13]) // 7
3. countUniqueValues([]) // 0
4. countUniqueValues([-2,-1,-1,0,1]) // 4
```js
function countUniqueValues(arr){
    if(arr.length === 0){
        return 0;
    }
    var i = 0;
    for(var j = 1; j < arr.length; j++){
        if(arr[i] !== arr[j]){
            i++;
            arr[i] = arr[j];
            
        }
    }
    return i+1;
}
```
