In business or academics activities, the ability of making presentations/speeches effectively is an added advantage. 
#### How to speak/present effectively
1. Know your audience
2. Selection of speech topic
3. Prepare
4. Rehearse
5. Keep well within the given time
6. Avoid jargon, use simple language
7. Have and attention grabbing opening, rich body and a memorable conclusion.
8. Eye contact
9. Gesture/facial expression
10. Vocal variety
11. Use visual aids/ props where necessary
12. Be in the time limit

#### 1. Know your Audience
It's important to know in advance you audience.
- Age
- Gender
- Education level
- Field of expertise
- Cultural background
Ex: 
	A speech on "healthy life style" is suitable for elderly audience than a speech on "social networks."
#### 2. Selection of speech topic
If you have been given the freedom to select your own topic, take something you are familiar with. 
Even if you have been given a topic, research well and do your homework.
#### 3. Prepare
- Preparation is the key to success.
- Research well on your topic and write down your points/facts.
- Reorder your points/facts logically into a speech.
- Don't include too much facts, graphs and match your speech into the time slot.
#### 4. Rehearse
- Rehearse in front of a small audience. If not, rehearse in front of the mirror. 
- Practice with appropriate gestures.
#### 5. Keep well within the given time. 
Don't make your speech too much short or too much long. 
Fit well your speech in to the time slot you are given.
#### 6. Avoid jargons, use simple language
Don't use difficult words, technical terms.(Specially when you are talking to the general public)
Use simple, easily understandable language. 
#### 7. Opening, body and conclusion
Speech should be consist of,
	Opening
	Body
	Conclusion
'Opening' should be attention grabbing.
'Body' can be rich with facts, graphs, charts, But do not overload your audience with facts and make them tired. 
'Conclusion' should be memorable with a strong message or a call for action.
#### 8. Eye contact
It is important to make proper eye contact with the audience and make them feel wanted or feel engaged.
#### 9. Gestures/facial expressions
Body language should be natural. Gestures and facial expressions should be suitable to the words uttered.
#### 10. Vocal variety
Varied volume, rate, pitch could be used to enhance the message. 
#### 11. Visual aids
Use visual aids and props where necessary to make your audience understand your message better. 
#### 12. Be in the limelight
Speaking in front of an audience means you are performing. Do not hide behind the lecterns. 
Do not turn your back to the audience and just keep reading your slides to them. You are the speaker and you should be in the limelight to give your audience a message to remember !