- The basic set of operations of the formal relational model is the relational algebra. Informally, relational algebra is a (high-level) procedural language.
- Relational algebra operations work on one or more relations to define another relation without changing the original relations. 
- Since the result of a relational algebra is a relation, it can become operand to another relational algebra operation. This allows operations to be nested, just as in arithmetic. (This property is called **closure**. )
### Sequence of Operations
For most queries we may want to apply several relational algebra operations one after the other.
Two ways to handle this situations,
1. A single relational algebra expression by nesting the operations. (in-line expression)
2. Apply one operation at a time and create intermediate result relations. 

Ex: Retrieve the first name, last name and salary of all employees who work in department no. 5.
1. A single relational algebra expression by nesting the operations.
$$
\begin{flalign}
&\Huge{\pi_{Fname, Lname, Salary} (\alpha_{Dno=5}(Employee))}
\end{flalign}
$$
2. As a sequence of expression giving names to the intermediate results
$$
\begin{flalign}
&\Large{DEP5 \_ {EMPS} \leftarrow \alpha_{Dno=5}(Employee)}\\
&\Large{RESULT \leftarrow \pi_{Fname, Lname,Salary}(DEP5\_EMPS)}
\end{flalign}
$$
- Relational algebra operations enables a user to specify basic retrieval request as relational algebra expressions. 
- A sequence of relational algebra operations forms a relational algebra expression, whose result will also be a relation that represents the result of a database query.(or retrieval request).

Relational algebra operations can be divide into two groups,
1. Traditional set operations(from mathematical set theory)
	Union, Intersection, Set Difference and Cartesian product
2. Operations specific to relational databases
	Select, Project, Join, ...
