#ec2 #compute_in_the_cloud
- In the Client server model, client sends requests to the server, then server does some work and then send responses.
	So business need servers to power up their applications. They need raw compute capacity to host applications and provide power that their business needs.

In the AWS, those servers are virtual and the servers you gained access to those virtual servers is called "EC2".

- ## Benefits of using EC2 than maintaining a datacenter :
	1. AWS has built the EC2 datacenters already.
	2. AWS has secured the datacenter.
	3. AWS has already bought the servers for you.
	4. AWS has already installed the servers for you.
	5. Servers are already online and ready to use.

- Aws is constantly operating a massive amount of compute capacity and you can whatever portion of that capacity, when you need it. All you need to do is request the EC2 instance you want and they will launch and boot up, ready to use within few minutes.
- You can easily stop or terminate the EC2 instance when you don't need them anymore.
- Usage of a EC2 can vary over time, and you only pay for what you have used.
	Only pay for running instances, not for stopped or terminated instances.

- Ec2 runs on top of physical host machines managed by AWS using virtualization technology. When you spin up a EC2 instance, you are not necessarily taking and entire host to yourself. Instead you are sharing the host with multiple other instances.(Virtual machines)
- "Hypervisor" running on the host machine is responsible for sharing the underlying physical resources between the virtual machines. This idea of sharing underlying hardware is called "multitenancy".
- The Hypervisor is responsible for,
		1. Coordinating multitenancy.
		2. Isolating the virtual machines from each other as they share resource from the host.
- Even though they may be sharing resources, one EC2 instance isn't aware of any of other EC2 instances which are also on the host. They are secure and separated. 

- EC2 instances have the flexibility and control over the configurations of those instances. 
	When you provision an EC2 instance, you can choose,
		1. OS (Windows or Linux)
		2. Business applications
		3. Simple/Complex web apps
		4. Databases or third-party software like enterprises software packages. 

- You can make your EC2 instance bigger or smaller, like giving more memory or CPU as you needed. This is called "Vertically Scaling a instance". (Resizable)

- You can also decide the networking aspect of the instance.
	Ex: 1. What type of requests make to the server 
		 2. Public/Private accessibility.
This model is called **"Compute as a service"**  or **"CaaS".**
