#ec2 #ec2_types #compute_in_the_cloud
AWS has different types of EC2 instances that you can deploy on you AWS environment.

- Each Instance type is grouped under an **"Instance Family"**. and are optimized for certain types of tasks.
- Instance types/families offer varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage and networking capacity and give you the flexibility to choose appropriate mix of resources for your applications.

## Amazon EC2 Families 
	1. General purpose
	2. Compute optimized.
	3. Memory optimized.
	4. Accelarated computing
	5. Storage optimized.

## 1. General Purpose
- Provide balance of compute memory and networking resources.
- Use cases,
	1. Application servers.
	2. Gaming servers.
	3. Back-end servers for enterprise applications.
	4. Small and medium databases.

## 2. Compute Optimized
- Ideal for compute-bound applications that benefits from high performance processors. 
- Can be used for same use cases as General purpose instances but the difference is this family if ideal for,
	1. High performance web servers.
	2. Compute intensive applications servers.
	3. dedicated gaming servers.
	4. Batch processing workloads.

## 3. Memory Optimized
- Designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets in memory. 
- Good for workloads that requires large amount of data to be preloaded before running an application.
	Ex: High performance Database 
	  Realtime processing of large amount of unstructured data

## 4. Accelerated Computing Instances.
- Use hardware accelerators or Co-processors to perform some functions more efficient.
- Use cases,
	1. Floating point number calculations.
	2. graphic processing
	3. Data pattern matching
- Ideal for,
	1. Graphic applications.
	2. Game streaming.
	3. Application streaming.

## 5. Storage Optimized
- Designed for workloads that require high, sequential read and write access to large datasets on local storage. 
- Use cases,
	1. Distributed file systems.
	2. Data warehousing applications.
	3. high-frequency online transaction processing(OLTP) systems.
- Input/Output ratio (IOPS) is a metric that measures performance of a storage device. This instance family is designed to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS to applications.  If you have an application that has a high IOPS requirement, a storage optimized instance can provide better performance.



