#ec2 #ec2_pricing #compute_in_the_cloud
- With amazon EC2, you only pay for the compute time that you've used.
- Pricing options,
	1. On-Demand
	2. Amazon EC2 Saving Plans
	3. Reserved Instances.
	4. Spot Instances.
	5. dedicated Hosts.

## 1. On-Demand
- Ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that can not be interrupted. 
- No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply.
- Instances run continuously until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use. 
- Price is depend on the duration(minutes or seconds, depending on the instance type and the operating system you choose) you used. 
- Use cases,
	1. Developing and testing applications
	2. running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns.
- On-demand is not recommend for workloads that last a year or longer because they would cost effective if they run on "Reserved instance".

## 2. Amazon EC2 Saving Plans
- AWS offers saving plans for several compute services including EC2.
- This plan enables you to reduce your compute costs by committing to a consistent amount if compute usage for a 1 year for 3 year term.
- This would save up to 72% over on-demand costs regardless of instance family, OS, tenancy or region.
- Price is measured dollars per hours.
- Any usage up to commitment is charged at the discounted saving plan rate(Ex: $10 per an hour).
- Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular on-demand rates.

## 3. Reserved Instances
- This option is a billing discount(up to 75%) applied On-demand instance committed for a 1 year or 3 years.
- Two types,
	1. Standard Reserved. (1 or 3 years)
	2. Convertible Reserved. (1 or 3 years)
	3. Scheduled Reserved. (1 year)
	(3-years plans are more cost saving)
- At the end of the reserved instance term, you can continue using the Amazon EC2 instance without interruption. However, you are charged On-demand rates until you do on of the following,
	1. Terminate the Instance.
	2. Purchase a new Reserved Instance that matches instance attributes. (Instance type, Region, Tenancy, platform)
- Suits for steady state workloads.
- You can like,
	1. All upfront (pay full payment when you commit)
	2. Partial upfront (Pay a portion of the payment when you commit)
	3. No upfront (Don't pay anything at the beginning)

## 4. Spot Instances
- Ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can withstand interruptions.
- Spot instances uses unused Amazon EC2 computing capacity and offer you cost saving up to 90% off of demand prices.
	(So, AWS can reclaim the instance at anytime they needed it, AWS will give you a two-minutes warning to finish up the work. You can always resume if needed.)
- Make sure your work can tolerate being interrupted when you choosing the spot instance.
- good for background processing jobs that start and stop as needed. Ex: survey data processing, batch workloads.
- If you make a Spot request when Amazon EC2 capacity is available, your Spot Instance launches. If you make a request when EC2 spots are unavailable, the request id not successful until capacity becomes available. The unavailable capacity might delay your background processing job. If capacity is no longer available or demand for spot instances increases, your instance may be interrupted. This might not pose any issues for your background processing job. 
- Developing and testing scenarios aren't recommended in spot instances.

## 5. Dedicated Hosts
- Dedicated hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instances capacity that is fully dedicated for you.
- Nobody will shar tenancy of that host.
- You can use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses to help maintain license compliance.
- Dedicated Hosts are the most expensive.

