### Quantitative and Qualitative Research
UX handles qualitative data (e.g., observations of user behaviour, findings from interviews and co-design) and quantitative data (e.g., web analytics, survey findings, neurophysiological data and findings from user testing). Qualitative and quantitative research are eminently complementary.

**Qualitative research** 
	Handles unstructured and non-numerical information. The data include notes written by the researcher during participant-observation, interviews and focus groups, and audio or video recordings carried out by the researcher in natural settings. The use of this data is informed by various methodologies, such as ethnography, content analysis, and other methods. Qualitative research methods are associated with social sciences.
**Quantitative research** 
	Deals with any numerical data; whether the information is already numerical (e.g., number of clicks) or it can be made numerical (a perception survey, like the _Webqual_, which assesses the subjective experience by expressing its different components through a 7-point scale). Numerical data analyzed statistically promises to yield results bearing greater objectivity.

**The strength of quantitative research** is the ease to collect numerical data (compared to qualitative information), quantitative research is more conducive to studies involving large random sampling; these can produce results that are generalizable to a whole population, but it does not answer all UX research questions.

In UX we use quantitative data to identify strengths and weaknesses of an interface or of an overall experience. 
	For example, it may establish that 82% of users of an e-commerce site finish their purchase in more than 10 minutes (and still wrap-up their purchase). 
	It may also tell us that a specific section of the site holds the highest drop-out rate, but it doesn't tell us _WHY_ these things happen the way they do. 
	Maybe more than one reason supports the observed behaviours or how to make it easier. 	
Often, we will need qualitative methods to complement quantitative findings in order to find what’s at play.

#### The differences between "Qual" and "Quant"
Qualitative and quantitative data require different study setups and very different analysis methods. They are rarely collected at the same time — which is why we need to understand their specificities. Both qualitative and quantitative testing are essential in an iterative design cycle. Although qualitative studies are more common in our industry, quantitative results put a numerical value on a redesign or on a subjective experience which allows for comparisons and benchmarking between old and new versions of an interface. For example, these comparisons are essential in calculating return on the UX investment!

| Key questions | Why?(Qualitative Research) | How many and How much?(Quantitative Research) |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Goal | Both formative and summative:<br>- Understand the users' mental model.<br>- Inform design decisions.<br>- Identify issues and friction points, and find solutions for them. | Mostly summative:<br>- Evaluate an existing site.<br>- Answer a yes/no hypothesis(ex: version A is better than version B)<br>- Track usability or experience over time.<br>- Compare site with competitors.<br>- computer ROI. |
| When is it used? | Anytime: during a redesign or when you have a final working product. | When you have something to test (a working product, either at the beginning or end of a design cycle) |
| Outcome | Findings based on the researcher’s analysis | Statistically meaningful results that are likely to be replicated in a different study |
| Methodology | - Few participants<br>- Flexible study conditions that can be adjusted according to the team's needs<br>- Interviews, observations, cultural probes, think aloud, and more | - Many participants<br>- Well-defined, strictly controlled study conditions<br>- Tests and surveys, web analytics, neurophysiological data collections |
| Protocol building vs. Data analyzing | - Relatively quick to build the right study protocol<br>- Long to analyze the collected data (seriously long. But quite fun!) | - Relatively long to build the right study protocol and frame the right questions/survey<br>- Fast to analyze collected data<br>- Most of the thinking goes to identifying the right set of questions and tests |
