#### Why quote/paraphrasing/summarizing ?
When we create a new writing, all sources cited must be properly acknowledged. One cannot use the exact wording or phrases from another source without quoting or acknowledging that source. 
If all or part of the original wording is reproduced to our new writing, the passage must be,
1. Quoted
	word-for-word, placed well within quotation marks,
	including an author-date, page reference and with a full reference to the source added to the reference list. 
	Ex: Gunasinghe 2000:42
2. Paraphrased or Summarized in the writers own word.
	Including an author-date, page reference(Ex: Gunasinghe 2000:42) and with a full reference to the source to the source added to the reference list. 
#### What is plagiarism ?
Plagiarism means using someone else's words or ideas without properly crediting the original author.
**Steps to avoid plagiarism,**
1. Paraphrase or quote from your source(and add your own ideas)
2. Credit the original author in a in-test citation and in the reference list/bibliography.
#### How to quote ?
When quoting, you have to copy someone else's words and credit the source. In academic writing, we use quotes to define concepts, provide evidence or analyze language.
**Steps**,
1. Surround the quoted text with quotation marks.
2. The original author should be correctly cited.
3. When using direct quotations, you must reproduce the author's exact words including all spelling, capitalization, punctuation and errors.
4. In order to show the reader that your have identified and error and that you are correctly quoting the author by replacing the term 'sic' in brackets after the error.
Ex: 
**Original Text**
	“… there are two ways to be wealthy: to create wealth or to take wealth away from others. The former adds to society. The latter typically subtracts from it, for in the process of taking it away, wealth gets destroyed. A monopolist who overcharges for his product takes away money from those whom he is overcharging and at the same time, destroys value. To get his monopoly price, he has to restrict production.”
		Stiglitz, J.E. (2013). The price of inequality. London: Penguin, pp 40

**Quote**
	Considering the two methods to become wealthy; generating wealth contributes to the society whereas snatching wealth from other, "typically subtracts from it, for in the process of taking it away, wealth gets destroyed" (Stiglitz, 2013:40)
#### How to paraphrase ?
Paraphrasing means putting someone else's ideas in your own words without changing the meaning of the original text.
Paraphrasing is a good alternative to quoting.
It is usually better to paraphrase than quote, because it make your work more original. 
when paraphrasing, it is important to cite the source and avoid using too much similar words in the original work. (Use an thesaurus)
**Steps,**
1. Read the passage well until you understand the meaning. 
2. Note down main points. 
3. Write down your version of the passage without looking at the original.
4. Use suitable synonyms when writing so that you do not copy the exact words of the original author. 
5. Now, compare your paraphrased text with the original passage and make necessary adjustments.
6. Cite the source using a standard referencing style. 

Ex:
Below is a passage taken from Raymond S. Nickerson's "How We Know and Sometimes Misjudge-What Others Know: Imputing One's Own Knowledge to Others." Psychological Bulletin 125.6 (1999): p737.

**Original passage**
	“In order to communicate effectively with other people, one must have a reasonably accurate idea of what they do and do not know that is pertinent to the communication. Treating people as though they have knowledge that they do not have can result in miscommunication and perhaps embarrassment. On the other hand, a fundamental rule of conversation, at least according to a Gricean view, is that one generally does not convey to others information that one can assume they already have.”
**Paraphrased version**
	Nickerson (1999) suggests that effective communication depends on a generally accurate knowledge of what the audience knows. If a speaker assumes too much knowledge about the subject, the audience will either misunderstand or be bewildered; however, assuming too little knowledge among those in the audience may cause them to feel patronized (Nickerson 1999: 737).
#### Paraphrasing tips
- Start your first sentence at a different point from that of the original source.(not compulsory)
- Use synonyms.
- Change the sentence structure. (Ex: from active to passive voice)
- Break the information into separate sentences. 

Ex:
**Original**
	Willy Wonka was famous for his delicious candy. Children and adults loved to eat it.
**Paraphrased version**
	The fictional character called, “Willy Wonka”, was known among many because everyone was fond of eating the tasty candy he made. 

#### Paraphrasing vs. Quoting
Paraphrasing indicates that you have fully understood the meaning of a text. 
Your voice will remain dominant throughout your paper. 
Using too many quotes reduces the readability of your text. 

**Quotes are appropriate when**
- Defining something
- Commenting on the author's language or style.
- providing evidence in support of an argument. 