- A summary is a brief overview of an entire discussion or argument. It include only the main points and leave out other details.
- We often summarize 
	when the original material is too long,
	when we need to emphasize key facts or points
	When the overall meaning of the source is more important than it's wording. 
- Summaries should make the original text more simple and easier to understand.
- Summaries also give authority and credibility to your work. 
#### How to summarize ?
1. Preview and read.
2. Make a list of main point.
3. Write a summary.
4. Re-read and edit. 
5. Credit the original author in an in-text citation and in the reference list/bibliography.
	Use standard referencing styles. 
	Ex: Harvard, IEEE, APA and etc...
#### When should I summarize ?
- To condense/reduce the source material to draw out the points that relate to your paper. 
- To omit extra information from the source material.
- To simplify the most important arguments, sentences or vocabulary in the source material. 
#### Paraphrasing vs. Summarizing
A paraphrase is a rewrite of the source passage using your own words. So it will be approximately the same length as the source.
When you completely or partially describe the substantial parts of the source, it is called a summary. When you summarize, avoid keeping the same structure of ideas and sentences structure. Just change only few of the words. Do not add your ideas into the summary and be faithful to the meaning of the source material. 

| Quoting                        | Paraphrasing                                | Summarizing                                         |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| Identical to the words found.  | Constructing a passage into your own words. | Putting main ideas/ points into your own words.     |
| Other person's idea and words. | Use your own sentence structure.            | Presents only the most important ideas of a source. |
| Quotation marks must be used.  | Attribute to your original source.          | Attribute to your original source.                  |
Ex:
**Original**
	The number of over weight children predicted to rise significantly around the world by the end of the decade. Research conducted in 25 countries has obesity that almost every country showed significant increases in childhood obesity. Also 50% of children in the US, Canada and Latin America will be overweight by 2020. In China this figure is estimated to be one in five. scientists believe this will mean that healthcare service will be seriously affected in the future. Many obese children will become obese adults, which will result in many of them suffering from heart disease, stroke and other weight related ailments. 
**Summary**
	By 2020, the healthcare services are foreseen to be significantly affected due to the unhealthy population on Earth, as childhood obesity would undergo a notable increase.