- Also known as the "Daily Scrum".
- Occurs everyday at the same time and place.
- Each member briefly reports on their work.
- This is called "Stand-up" because everyone should remain to keep it short. 
- Timebox to 15 min.
- It's not a status meeting. It's meeting for all of the developers team to understand who's working on what and what are we going to get done today. 

**Attendees,**
1. Scrum master
	If anyone is blocked, scrum master should unblock them.
2. Development team
3. Product owner (optional)
		They are not to speak unless spoken to.
### Daily Stand-up questions
Each member answers three questions,
	1. What did I get done yesterday ?
	2. What I'm going to work on today ?
	3. What are blockers/impediment in my way ?

### Impediments and blockers
 Impediments identified by the team should be unblocked by the scrum master. It's important to keep the team moving forward. 
 Developers who are blocked should take the next story off the sprint backlog and work on it. Unless you are going to get unblocked in an hour or two you need to take another story and work on it. 

### Tabled Topics
Topics raised during the daily stand-up should be held until the meeting has ended. These are called "Tabled Topics".
Scrum master should note them and those tabled topics can be addressed after the 15 minutes of Scrum meeting. 
Ex: somebody needs help on something and another one has decided to help him. This should be considered as a tabled topic and can be addressed after the 15 minutes.