### Measurements and Metrics
Having metrics is critically important, because you can't improve what you can't measure.
High performing teams use metrics to measure how they are doing and they make sure those are going in the right direction. They take baselines and set goals and measure against those goals.

### Beware of vanity metrics
Ex: 
"We got 10,000 hits to the website we created!"
	What does this means ?
		Someone clicked 1000 times ?
		Did 10000 people clicked once and go away ?
		Do we know what makes that people drove to our website ?
		Do we know what should we do next time ?

These type of metrics are called "Vanity metrics".

### Actionable metrics
These are the metrics that we can really work on.
Ex: 
	1. Use A/B split-test to deploy a new feature to 50% of users when you got two versions of something and you don't know what version customers more prefer.
	2. Measure behavior of those who saw the feature and those who did not. 
	3. Do more of that what produced the desired behavior.

### Baseline and Goals
**Baseline,**
	Whatever your baseline is, you pick something that you want to improve and measure it the way it is today. 
	Then you set yourself a goal.
		Ex: 
			It currently requires six team members 10 hours to deploy a new release of your product. 
			This cost you $X for every release.
**Goal,**
	Gradually try to reach that goal from your baseline. It will take some times but make sure you are going in the right direction. 
		Ex:
			Reduce deployment time from 10 hours to 2 hours.
			Increase percentage of defects detect in testing from 25% to 50%.

### Top 4 actionable metrics
1. Mean Lead Time
	How long does it takes from idea to production ? 
2. Release Frequency 
	How often can you deliver changes.
3. Changes Failure Rate
	How often do changes fail ?
4. Mean Time to Recovery(MTTR)
	How quickly can you recover from failures.

Example metrics,
1. Reduce time-to-market for new features.
2. Increase overall availability of the product.
3. Reduce the time it rakes to deploy a software release.
4. Increase the percentage of defects detected in testing before production release.
5. Provide performance and user feedback to the team in a more timely manner.