### End of sprint activities
1. Move stories from "Done" column to "Closed" column.
2. Close the current milestone.
3. Create a new sprint milestone.
4. Adjust any unfinished work.

### Handling untouched stories.
Untouched stories means stories that no one has worked one. 
 Stories not worked on can be moved to the top of the product backlog.
	Resist the urge to move them to the next sprint. 
	Because that wouldn't be our top priority in the next sprint or we may have better stories of these stories to work on in next sprint so we left them.
	Remember to unassign them from the sprint milestone. 

### Handling unfinished stories
- Don't move unfinished stories into the next sprint. 
- Give the developer credit for the work they did.
1.  If only the half is done, then adjust the size of the story points to half and adjust the description. Label it "Unfinished" and move it to "Done" column.
2.  Create a new story for other half of the story in the product backlog and move it to the next sprint. 
This will keep your velocity more accurate.
Ex: 
	Total story is 8 points. 
	Only half is worked on. 
	Adjust the story points to 4, adjust the description, label it "Unfinished" and move it to the "Done" column. 
	Create a new story in the product backlog for remaining 4 points and move it to the next sprint. 

### Getting ready for the next sprint.
1. All the stories that are assigned to the current sprint should be closed. 
2. All unfinished stories should be reassigned. 
3. The sprint milestone should be closed. 
4. A new sprint milestone should be created. 