**Example 1**
```xml
<xsl:template match='/'>
	<HTML>
		<BODY>
			<xsl:apply-template select='child::*'>
		</BODY>
	</HTML>
</xsl:template>
```
- `<xsl:template match="/">` 
	indicates that this template applies to the root element of the XML document. Everything within these tags will be generated after applying this template. 
-  `<xsl:apply-templates>` 
	The `select` attribute specifies that this instruction should find and apply templates to all child elements (`*`) of the current element (which is the root element in this case).
This instruction searches for child elements of the root element and attempts to find matching templates in the stylesheet. Then it will create a basic HTML structure. 
This code snippet only defines the starting point for the transformation. It relies on the existence of other templates in the stylesheet that match the child elements of the root element. Without those additional templates, the final output might just be an empty `<BODY>` within the basic HTML structure.

**Example 2**
```xml
<xsl:template match='/'>
	<HTML>
		<BODY>
			<xsl:apply-template select='child::*'>
		</BODY>
	</HTML>
</xsl:template>

<xsl:template match='book'>
	<H1> <xsl:value-of select='title'/> </H1>
</xsl:template>
```
- `<xsl:template match="book">`
	This template matches elements named `book` within the XML document. This is where the actual transformation for book information happens.
- `<H1> <xsl:value-of select="title"/> </H1>`
	This line creates an HTML heading element(`<h1>`) and uses `<xsl:value-of ...>` to extract the value of the 'title' element from the current 'book' element. The extracted title text is ten placed within the heading tags. 
This template creates the basic HTML structure (`<HTML>` and `<BODY>`) and then uses `<xsl:apply-template>` to search for child elements. If the child elements in the XML document are named "book," the second template with `match="book"` is applied for each book element. For each book element, the second template creates an `<h1>` element and extracts the title value using `<xsl:value-of>`, effectively displaying each book title as a separate heading in the HTML output.

Input XML
```xml
<book isbn='1234-5678-90'>
	<title>Care and Feeding of Wombats</title>
</book>
```

Output HTML
```html
<HTML>
	<BODY>
		<H1>Care and Feeding of Wombats</H1>
	</BODY>
</HTML>
```