Templates are the fundamental building blocks of XSLT Stylesheets. 
They define how specific parts of an XML document are transformed into the output format.
#### Structure of a XSLT Template
A XSLT templates if defined using the `<xsl:template>` element. This element has two key attributes. 
- **match** : Specifies an XPath expression that determines which elements in the XML document the templates applies to. 
- **name** : (optional) Assign a name to the template, allowing you to call it from other parts of the stylesheet using `<xsl:call-template>`
#### Transformation Rules
Inside the `<xsl:template>` element, you define the transformation rules for the matched elements. 
This involves,
- **Copying elements** : Copy element from the XML document to the output using `<xsl:copy>`
- **Selecting and manipulating content** : XSLT provides instructions to extract specific content from elements using XPath expressions. You can then format, modify or combine this content for the output.
- **Generate new elements** : XSLT allow you to create entirely new elements in the output that aren't present in the original XML data.
- **Calling other templates** : You can use `<xsl:call-template>` to invoke other templates within the stylesheet for nested transformations. 
#### Template Matching Priority
When multiple templates have matching patterns for a specific element, XSLT uses a priority mechanism to determine which one gets applied. You can assign a numeric priority using the `priority` attribute within the `<xsl:template>` element. 
#### Template Types
1. **Unnamed Templates(Match Templates)**
	Most common type.
	Defined using `<xsl:template>` with a `match` attribute.
	The `match` attribute specifies an XPath expression that acts as a pattern to identify the elements in the XML document that this template applies to. 
	Ideal for straightforward transformation based on element names, attributes or positions within the XML structure. 
2. **Named Templates**
	Defined using the `<xsl:template>` element with a `name` attribute assigned a unique identifier. This name allows you to call the template from other parts of the stylesheet using `<xsl:call-template>`.
	Promotes code reusability, modularity and maintainability in your XSLT stylesheet. (Once defined, it can be called multiple times.)
3. **Template Modes**
	Template modes provide a way to define alternative transformation logic for element based on a designated "mode". This allows you to handle the same element is different ways depend on the context of your transformation. 
	The `mode` attribute is used within `<xsl:apply-template>` instruction to specify or activate a particular mode. 

Ex:
XML Data(books.xml)
```xml
<books>
	<book>
		<title>The Lord of the Rings</title>
		<author>J.R.R. Tolkien</author>
	    <year>1954</year>
	</book>
	<book>
	    <title>The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy</title>
		<author>Douglas Adams</author>
	    <year>1979</year>
	</book>
</books>
```

XSLT Stylesheet(books.xsl)
```xml
<xsl:stylesheet version="1.0"xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">

	<xsl:template match="/">
		<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
		<html>
		    <head>
			    <title>Book List</title>
		    </head>
		    <body>
		        <h1>My Book Collection</h1>
		        <table>
			        <tr>
			            <th>Title</th>
			            <th>Author</th>
			            <th>Year</th>
			        </tr>
			        <xsl:apply-templates select="books/book"/>
		        </table>
		    </body>
		</html>
	</xsl:template>

	<xsl:template match="book">
		<tr>
		    <td><xsl:value-of select="title"/></td>
		    <td><xsl:value-of select="author"/></td>
		    <td><xsl:value-of select="year"/></td>
		</tr>
	</xsl:template>
	
</xsl:stylesheet>
```

**Explanation**
1. `<xsl:template match="/">`
	Indicates that this template matches the document root element. 
2. Table creation
	Creates HTML table with a header row containing titles for "Title", "Author" and "Year".
3. `<xsl:apply-templates select="books/book"/>`
	Process each child element(`book`) of the `books` element. 
	This applies the next template specifically designed for `book` elements.
1. `<xsl:template match="book">`
	This template matches the individual `book` elements. 
	For each `book`, it creates a new table row(`<tr>`) with table cells(`<td>`) containing the extracted values of the `title`, `author` and `year` elements using `<xsl:value-of select="....">` with appropriate XPath expressions.