Database users are in main two categories,
1. Actors on the scene
2. Workers behind the scene
### Actors on the scene
Use and control database content, design, develop and maintain the database applications. 
1. Database Administrators
2. Database Designers
3. Software Designers
4. End-users
#### 1. Database Administrators
- Administering the DBMS and related software.
- Authorizing access to the database.
- Coordinating and monitoring its use. 
- Acquiring software and hardware resources.
- Tuning the DBMS for best performance.
#### 2. Database designer
- Identifying the data to be stored.
- Choosing appropriate structures to represent and tore this data.
- Communication with end users and understand their needs.
#### 3. End-User
End-users are who required the access to the DB for querying, updating and generating reports. 
Types of End-users,
1. **Naive or parametric end users**: canned queries and updates.
2. **Casual end users**: occasional, special-purpose access
3. **Sophisticated end users**: deep knowledge of database design and DBMS facilities.
4. **Standalone users**: users of personal database.

#### 4. System Analysts
Determine requirements of end users.
#### 5. Application Programmers
Implement complex specifications(business logic) as programs.

---
### Workers behind the scene
Those who design and develop the DBMS software and related tools. 
#### 1. DBMS system designers and implementers
design and implement the DBMS modules and interfaces as a software package.
#### 2. Tool developers
Design and implement tools.
#### 3. Operators and maintenance personnel
Responsible for running and maintenance of hardware and software environment for database system.

---
### Data Administrator(DA) vs. Database Administrator(DBA)
Both are responsible for managing database for an organization.
#### Data Administrator(DA)
Data administrator(DA) is a business focused senior level person in the organization who should understand the database technology. Doesn't have to be a technical person but having any kind of knowledge about database technology can be more beneficial.
- Basically, DA controls the data of the database. 
	Determines what data to be stored in database, based on requirement of the organization and establish policies to maintain data.
- Involve in phases like 
	Requirement gathering,
	analysis
	design
#### Database Administrator(DBA)
Database Administrator(DBA) is a technical person having knowledge of database technology. DBA doesn't need to be a business person but understand about the business is beneficiary to administrator the database effectively. 
- DBA implements DA's decisions in the database and Provide necessary technical support for implementing a database.
- Involves in the phases like,
	design
	development
	testing
	operation
Roles of a DBA,
1. Design of the conceptual and physical schemas.
2. Database integrity.
	Introduce constraints. 
	Integrate business rules to the DB.
3. Transaction processing.
	Introducing isolation level and manage concurrent transactions to avoid inconsistent data.
4. Concurrency control
	Introducing concurrency control techniques.
5. Database security
	Responsible for ensuring that unauthorized data access is not permitted. 
	Create user accounts and specify account restrictions.
6. Database availability and Recovery
	Must take steps to ensure that if the system fails, users can continue to access as much of the uncorrupted data as possible.
	The DBA must also work to restore the data to a consistent state. 
	Ensure that the database remains in a consistent state in the presence of failure. 
	Responsible for implementing procedures to backup the data periodically and maintain logs of system activity(to facilitate recovery from a crash.)
	Introduce checkpoints and recovery mechanism in database.
7. Database tunning
	User's need are likely to evolve with time. Therefore responsible for modifying the database, in particular the conceptual and physical schemas, to ensure adequate performance as requirements change.
