Writers target their purpose and audience before and while they write. The purpose of your essay is the very reason you are writing the essay. The audience of your paper is those who will read your essay. so it's important to understand the audience's needs before your start writing. 

The audience and the purpose act in two direction.
1. The audience will influence the purpose and 
2. the purpose will influence the audience as well.

The purpose could be either one or more of the following, 
1. Convince
2. Inform
3. Instruct
4. Analyze
5. Review

Steps :
1. First you need to identify your purpose. Consider what you want to accomplish or achieve by your piece of writing.
2. Write down the ideas that fit your purpose.
3. Now make a set of consideration questions that bridges between your purpose and the audience. 

### Audience
**Consider who will be reading your work.**
	The language an style of your work should cater to the expectation of the audience.
**Respect your audience.**
	Consider how you are going to put points clearly into the minds of the members of your audience. 


EX:
**Purpose:** 
	Convince the audience to buy an exercise machine.
**Audience:** 
	Middle ages and your who are probably out of shape and can afford to buy the machine.
**Considerations:** 
	What does this audience think about this machine ?
	How can I best connect my argument to this audience's lifestyle ?
	What will be this audience major concern about the machine ?
	How can I address those concerns ?

### Maintenance
Maintaining a large work (Ex: Thesis) could be relatively difficult. 
One way of doing this is by checking the relationship between the beginning and the conclusion whether they relate to the same goals. 
Once you finish your work, it is great if you could get somebody to go through it and evaluate. 

### Focus
Topic of your writing can be focused in mainly three categories,
1. Broad 
2. Narrowed
3. Focused

|          | Broad Topic | Narrowed Topic                            | Focused Topic                              |
| -------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Example: | Vegetarinsm | Health questions regarding vegetarianism. | Vegetarians are healthier than meat-eaters |

### Revise
The author can begin revising his/her work once the draft has been completed.
Edit the document to make it
- more professional
- efficiently catch up the purpose of the work
- to suit the expectation of the audience
If it is a thesis or a similar document, reconsider the thesis statement to see whether it is well focused or still board. 

Revise the continuity and the logical flow of your work,
- Re-read the introductions and the conclusion to see whether they both  talk about the same thing or whether you have gone off-track.
- Check the smooth transitions between paragraphs. A few words you may use for smooth transition are as follows,
	- Therefore
	- Although
	- Moreover
	- Accordingly
	- Similarly
	- Nevertheless
	- Thus
	- Hence

