### What is a formal report ?
Formal report is a document prepared following a fixed procedure which used to describe an investigation and give result and recommendation based on it. 

Parts of a formal report,
1. Title
2. Summary(optionally)
3. Introduction 
4. Findings
5. Conclusion
6. Recommendations

#### Title
- Should be specific.
- Convey useful information about the content of the report.
- Followed by names of authors and date it was finished. 
Ex:
	Survey of First Year Student at University of Colombo School of Computing: 2011-2012
	University Student Survey Committee,
	August Aug 11, 2013

#### Summary
- Optional.
- Briefly state 
	Aim of the report
	Describe the methodology followed
	Group conclusion of the investigation to categories
Ex:
	1. Summary
	A survey of the first year student of the University of Colombo School of Computing(UCSC) was carried out to identify the problems they face. Students were surveyed on several matters. Majority expressed satisfaction with the university whereas a few areas of concern were identified. 

#### Introduction
- What is to be investigated.
- Who requested the report.
- When it was requested. 
- What methodology us to be used. (should be indicated last)
Tenses: Past Tense, Use present tense for aims/goals.
Ex:
	2. Introduction
	The main purpose of this survey is to identify ways of improving effectiveness of education for the first years of UCSC.
	This report was requested by the director UCSC on December 1st, 2012. A university student survey committee was formed, consisting of the Director, Deputy director, Student Counselor and Registrar. The committee was asked to submit its findings by September 1st, 2013.
	The committee constructed a questionnaire aiming at extracting information from the students who have been first year undergraduates within the period of 201 1-2012. Copies of this questionnaire are available at the UCSC Library. A total of 112 students answered the questionnaire and out of this 100 were usable responses. 118 students were registered as first year undergraduates in 201 1-2012. Hence these responses can be taken to reflect the views of a significant majority of this batch of students. The questionnaire included 20 variables categorized into 6 groups.
	• Information received from UCSC before their
	•The student's reception into the university
	•The courses and lectures at UCSC
	•Interaction with staff and senior students
	•Learning resources
	•Food and accommodation

#### Findings
- Facts discovered by using the methodology describe in the introduction. 
Tense: Past tense, Passive voice is commonly used.

Ex: 
	3. Findings
		**3.1 Before arrival at UCSC**
		Students were inquired whether they have received thorough, partial or no information about UCSC, their chosen program of study and campus culture. Results suggest that sufficient information was provided on the above mentioned aspects.
		**3.2 After arrival at UCSC**
		Using a scale of unsatisfied, satisfied or very satisfied, students were asked to rate five aspects of their arrival and stay at UCSC. A considerable number of responses suggested that hostel facilities and time allocated for English lessons need improvement.
#### Conclusion
- Statements of fact derived from findings.
Tense: Present Simple or Past Perfect Tense
Ex:
	4. Conclusion
	This survey of the first year undergraduates of UCSC within the period of 201 1-2012 shows why UCSC is a destination sought by many youngsters for their higher education. However, two main concerns have been highlighted.
		**4.1 The hostel facilities provided have been insufficient.**
		**4.2 Not enough teaching time has been allocated for English lessons.**
#### Recommendations
- Suggestions of how the problems can be solved.
- Often contain the words, **should**.
- Verbs with **should** be in **active voice** or **passive voice**.
Ex:
	5. Recommendation
	Based on the survey results, the committee makes the following recommendations.
		**5.1 The university should allocate a spacious building for hostel facilities.**
		**5.2 The first year time table should have more time allocated for English lessons.**

