### Purpose of a cover letter
- Mention the job you are applying for
- Mention why you are interested in the job
- Demonstrate that you possess sufficient skills and experience/ more than sufficient to fulfill the skills required by the employer. 
- Encourage the reader to read your resume. 
- Finish with a call for action
	(Ex: asking for a quick favourable response.) 

You should also indicate your enthusiasm for the opportunity that us being offered. 
1. Why you are interested in working for the organization.
2. Why you are particularly interested in the job/function.
3. What makes you a strong candidate for the job.

In most Asian countries, most commonly we use a brief cover letter which contains only a few lines of text and which more or less provides a reference to the CV.
In this format, we usually do not repeat or summarize the content of the CV.
There is another format(use in Europe and US) where the cover letter is meant to be a summary of your resume. Even then, it is not to make the cover letter exceed one page.
If you have a lengthy CV then it good to summarize it in the cover letter. 

- Use a different cover letter for each job you apply for.
- Try no to use "To whom may it concern", find out the name of the person who will read your application. 
	If you find out the person's name, don't use the first name. Use 'Mr' or 'Ms' and their last name. 
	If you are not sure of the gender of the person, use "Dear Sir/Madam".

The word "Covering letter" is used in UK English and "Cover letter" is US English. Both mean the same thing. 