Design patterns are essentially reusable solutions to common programming problems. They are like blueprints that provide a structed approach approach to tackling thee challenges, promoting efficiency and code quality. 

Key aspects,
- Design patterns are tested and proven approaches. Devs can save time and effort without reinventing the wheel. 
- A core principle of design pattern is reusability. Designed to be adaptable to different situations. 
- By using common terminology and established patterns, programmers can effectively  discuss and collaborate on the design of a software application. 

**Main categories of Design patterns,**
1. **Creational Pattern**
	Focuses on object creation mechanism.
	Provide a way to improve flexibility and control over object instantiation.
	Main categories,
	1. Class creation
	2. Object creation
Ex: 
- Abstract Factory 
- Builder
- Factory Method
- Object Pool
- Prototype
- Singleton

2. **Structured Pattern**
	Deal with the structure of classes and objects. 
	Define how classes and objects can be composed to form larger structure and achieve new functionalities.
Ex:
- Adapter
- Bridge
- Composite
- Decorator
- Facade
- Flyweight
- Proxy

3. **Behavioral Pattern**
	Address how objects interact and communicate with each other. 
	Define ways to achieve loose coupling and improve communication between different parts of the application. 
Ex:
- Chain of responsibility
- Command
- Interpreter
- Iterator
- Mediator
- Memento
- Null Object
- Observer
- State
- Strategy
- Template method
- Visitor