In XSD, complex types are essentially blueprints that define the structure of elements that can contain other elements and attributes. They act like reusable templates, ensuring consistency and validation in your XML documents. 
Complex types provide a way to define elements with a hierarchy, allowing them to contain child elements and attributes. This enables you to represent structured data in your XML. 

In XSD, **Content models** dictate how child elements and text data can be arranged within an element. They essentially define the structure and rules for the content an element can hold. 
There are several content models in XSD,
1. **Sequence** (xs:sequence)
	- Enforces a specified order for child elements.
	- Elements must appear in the order they are defined within the `<xsd:sequence>` element.
	- **Use Case:** Ideal for data with a natural order of elements, like steps in a process, addresses with a specific structure (street, city, country), or ordered lists of items.
```xml
<xsd:complexType name="Book">
	<xsd:sequence>
		<xsd:element name='title' type='xsd:string'/>
		<xsd:element name='author' type='xsd:string'/>
	</xsd:sequence>
</xsd:complexType>
```
(Title must appear before author)

2. **Choice** (xs:choice)
	- Allow one element out of a set of alternatives. 
	- Only one child element from within the `<xsd:choice>` group can be present within the element. 
	- **Use Case:** Useful for scenarios where an element can have different types of content depending on the situation. For example, payment information could be either a credit card or a cash payment.
```xml
<xsd:complexType name="Payment">
	<xsd:choice>
		<xsd:element name='creditCard' type='tns:creitCard'/>
		<xsd:element name='cashOnDelivery' type='xsd:boolean'/>
	</xsd:choice>
</xsd:complexType>
```
(Either creditCard or cash element)

3. **All** (xs:all)
	- Defines an unordered set of child elements. 
	- All element within the `<xsd:all>` group must be present, but the order doesn't matter. 
	- **Use Case:** Suitable for situations where all the specified elements are mandatory for the element to be complete, but the order isn't significant. This could be used for address information, product details, or any data structure where a complete set of elements is required.
```xml
<xsd:complexType name="Address"> 
	<xsd:all> 
		<xsd:element name="street" type="xsd:string"/> 
		<xsd:element name="city" type="xsd:string"/> 
		<xsd:element name="country" type="xsd:string"/> 
	</xsd:all> 
</xsd:complexType>
```

4. **Mixed** (xs:mixed)
	- This allows you to define elements that can contain a mixture of child elements and character data(text) within them. This provides flexibility for data that combines structured elements with descriptive text content. 
	- **Use Case:** Scenarios where data has a mix of structured information and descriptive text.
		Ex: News articles with titles, paragraphs(elements) and potential inline formatting.(texts)
		Product descriptions with details(elements) and rich text descriptions(text).
```xml
<xsd:complexType name="article">
  <xsd:mixed>
    <xsd:element name="title" type="xsd:string"/>
    <xsd:element name="author" type="xsd:string"/>
  </xsd:mixed>
</xsd:complexType>
```
(This `article` element can contain both `title` and `author` elements and character data, allowing for text content within the body.)

#### Steps of defining a Complex type in XSD
1. **Define the complex type.**
	Use the `<xsd:complexType name='name'>` element to define a new complex type.
	`name` = name of the element
2. **Define the content model**
	Ex: `<xsd:sequence>`
	Options:
		sequence
		choice
		all 
		mixed
3. **Define Child elements**
	Use `<xsd:element name='name' type='type'>` element to define child elements. 
	`name`: name of the element
	`type`: data type
4. **Define attributes**
	Use `<xsd:attribute name:'name' type='type' use='constraints'>` element to define attributes associated with the complex type. 
	`name`: name of the attribute
	`type`: data type
	`use`: constraints (Ex: required)

Ex:
```xml
<xsd:schema xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">

<xsd:complexType name="Order">
	<xsd:sequence>
		<xsd:element name="customerID" type="xsd:string"/>
	    <xsd:element name="items" type="tns:Items"/> 
    </xsd:sequence>
</xsd:complexType>

<xsd:complexType name="Items">
	<xsd:sequence>
	    <xsd:element name="Item" type="tns:Item" minOccurs="1" maxOccurs="unbounded"/>
	</xsd:sequence>
</xsd:complexType>

<xsd:element name="Item">
	<xsd:complexType>
	    <xsd:attribute name="productID" type="xsd:string" use="required"/>
	    <xsd:attribute name="quantity" type="xsd:integer"/>
	</xsd:complexType>
</xsd:element>

<xsd:element name="OrderData" type="tns:Order"/>
</xsd:schema>
```
