### What is SQL ?
A relational database language built for controlling and interacting with a database management system.
Capabilities,
- Insertion
- Update
- Deletion
- Query
- Protection
In addition, it has facilities for 
	defining views on the database, 
	specifying security and authorization, 
	defining integrity constraints and 
	transaction controls.
It also has rules for embedding SQL statements into a general purpose programming language such as Java or C/C++.

SQL is designed for end users.
And it's Non-procedural.
	We have to show 'what is needed' and not 'how.' 

SQL is used in two ways,
1. Interactive
2. Programmatic : Dynamic/Embedded
#### Role of SQL
- A database programming language
- A database administration language
- A client/server language
- A distributed database language

- SQL is vendor independent.
- Client application relatively portable.
- Programmer skills are portable.
- Support many different client processes, end-users, applications and developers.
- Database servers use SQL to request services from each other.
#### Standard versions of SQL
1. SQL-86 or SQL1
2. SQL-92 or SQL2
3. SQL-99 or SQL3

- The later SQL standards are divide into
1. core specification
	Core is suppose to be implemented by all RDBMS vendors that are SQL complaint.
2. specialized extensions.
	Extensions can be implemented as optional modules. Can be purchased independently for specific database application.
	Ex: data mining, data warehousing, spatial data, temporal data, online analytical processing(OLAP), multimedia data