The basic data types available,
1. numeric
2. character string
3. bit string
4. boolean
5. data
6. time
### Numeric data types
Used to store numbers and can be further divide into exact numeric(like integers) and approximate numeric (like decimal).
**INT** : Integers(32 bit)
**BIGINT** : Integers(64 bit)
**FLOAT** : Floating point numeric data
**DOUBLE** : Double precision floating point numeric data
**DECIMAL(p, s)** or **NUMERIC(p, s)** : Fixed point numeric data type with p digits in total, s of which are after the decimal point.
### Character-string data type
Used to store text data. They can be 
	fixed length(like CHAR) or 
	variable-length(like VARCHAR).

**CHAR(n)** : n is the number of characters
- Shorter strings are padded with blank character to the right. 
- If the value is 'smith' for CHAR(10), it is padded with 5 blank characters. Padded blanks are generally ignored when strings are compared. 
**VARCHAR(n)** : n is the maximum number of characters
- When specifying a literal string value, it is placed between single quotation marks and it is case sensitive.
- Concatenation operator denoted by '||'.
	Ex: 'abc' || 'XYZ' results in a single string 'abcXYZ'

**CHARACTER LARGE OBJECT**/**CLOB** : Specify columns that have large text values such as document. 
- The CLOB maximum length can be specified in kilobytes(K), megabytes(M) or gigabytes(G).
	Ex: CLOB(20M) : maximum length of 20 megabytes.
### Bit-string types
Used to store binary value strings.

**BIT(n)** : Fixed length n
**BIT VARYING(n)** : n is the maximum number of bits.
- The default for n is 1. 
- Literal bit strings are places between single quotes but preceded by a B to distinguish them from character string.
	Ex: B'10101'
**BINARY LARGE OBJECT(BLOB)** : Used to store large binary data such as images or documents.
- Maximum length of a BLOB can be specified in kilobytes(K), megabytes(M) or gigabytes(G).
	Ex: BLOB(30G) : maximum length of 30 gigabytes.

### Boolean data types
- Value can be either TRUE or FLASE.
- In SQL, because of the presence of NULL values, a three values logic is used. Third possible value for a boolean data type is UNKNOWN. 
### Date and Time data type
**DATE** : Represent a date in the form of the YYYY-MM-DD
	Has 10 positions.
**TIME** : Represent a time in the form of r the HH:MM:SS
	has at least 8 positions.
**DATETIME** : Represent a combination of date and time in the form of YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss.nn
	Literal values are represented by single-quoted strings preceded by the keyword DATE and TIME. 
	Ex: DATE'2014-09-27' or TIME'09:12:47'

- TIME WITH TIME ZONE data type includes an additional six positions for specifying the displacement form the standard universal time zone, which is in the range +13:00 to -12:59 in units of HOURS:MINUTES. 
- If with time zone is not included, the default is the local time zone for the SQL session.

**TIMESTAMP** : Representing a specific point in the time, typically stored as the number of seconds or milliseconds since the Unix epoch. Then it converts into a human readable format of YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.SSSSSS(milliseconds)
- This includes DATE and TIME fields with minimum of six positions for fractions of seconds. 
- An optional with time zone qualifier. 
- Literal values are represented by single-quoted strings preceded by the keyword TIMESTAMP, with a blank space between data and time.
	Ex: TIMESTAMP '2014-09-27 09:12:47.648302'
- In some database system, timestamps can be updated automatically whenever a row is inserted or updated. 

**INTERVAL** : Designed to store time span or duration. It allows you to represent difference between two dates, times or timestamps or even add or subtract specific time units from these values.
Two types,
1. YEAR/MONTH : Represent a span of years and months. 
	Ex: INTERVAL '2 YEARS 3 MONTH'
2. DAY/TIME : Represent spans of days, hours, minutes, seconds and fractions of a second.
	INTERVAL '5 DAYS 1 HOURS 30 MINUTES'

- DATE, TIME and TIMESTAMP can be considered as a special type of string because they can generally be used in string comparisons by being cast into the equivalent string.